ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188220	We start with the only item on the agenda that we have today, which is: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 814. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in relation to Art. 190th of our Rules of Procedure HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating, as can be seen from the title, to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. With us are representatives of the Ministry of Health, Mr. Secretary of State Zeljko Plazonic will have an opening statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. This legislative proposal therefore proposes to delete the provisions on the obligation of the authorisation to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals, but without amending the conditions for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. The provisions on the organisation of knowledge acquisition in the protection against dangerous chemicals, the implementation and verification of knowledge on the protection of dangerous chemicals are then amended, and this is done in a way that the HZZZ implements the same. Provisions on the powers of competent sanitary inspectors are also amended, in particular in the part of the ban on carrying out activities without meeting the prescribed conditions, all for the purpose of protecting human health and the environment. Compared to the first and second reading, we clearly no-technically edited this text with the proposals of the HS Legislative Committee. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188222	The first is Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188223	Thank you very much. Secretary, is the Republic of Croatia ready to follow the example of the EU countries and ban the harmful Monsant herbicide, glyphosate? Many EU countries, even the EU and parliament have spoken and made a decision, and the Austrian Parliament, that it will ban, made a decision to ban the glyphosate of Monsanth's harmful union, we, I gave that law to the MOST Club to abolish glyphosate. The Minister of Agriculture says there's no problem with that. We gave the law banning GMO products where Monsanto pushes and his products. What have you done about protecting Croatian citizens from this harmful Monsant product, glyphosate? So far, we have no information other than the opposition of Minister Vukkovic, who obviously works in the interest of Monsant, not in protecting the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188224	Mr. Chury. ... Yeah, well, I saw that, though. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The answer is to forgive Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188225	Well, we've already been thinking about it in this assembly several times, and that's the part that's not only about this law, but also the law that comes into the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture, so repeating I think would be completely unnecessary. And as for Monsanto and his product, first of all it's not Monsanto, it's now another firm... Yeah. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] And the harmfulness of glyphosate exists, therefore, we cannot claim that it is so harmful that it causes such diseases as you have spoken of in some of your legal proposals. The scientific aspect has not yet been proven, so that part even, I repeat, does not fall within the scope of this Chemical Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188226	Mr. Curly, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188227	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. What I'm reading here and I think it's one good thing, I just want to show all the absurdity of the current legal solutions, and that means that this law proposes to delete the provisions on the obligation to carry out the authorisation to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals after actually what we had, and that we had to get prior conditions for carrying out our activities. And now it's just being administratively relieved. So you had an inspection that had to determine the conditions, after you had met all the conditions to do it, you had to administratively ask for a solution to do it again, so that's what a large and good part of the citizens and the public has always been pissed at that administration, I'm interested in how much this except for the time savings, how much financial savings, if you might have this information, because you know that every solution is not meaningless, that there are always some notes beautiful and so on, and so on, and they pay some taxes, so on the other hand, and I commend this, these changes, and I hope that even more will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188228	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188229	I don't have financial indicators that would say that this will bring as much and as much savings, but the fact that it will certainly bring savings, but what's even more important than saving, is to speed up the process of approval and the outcome of the authorisation to deal with and manage dangerous chemicals, but what matters most is that the conditions must be met as was in previous legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188230	Thank you very much. And the third replica, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188231	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This Chemical Act helps the economy in a certain way, and it is certain that it is good, we at HSS welcome any redundancy of the economy that goes in the direction of facilitating business. This Law also sets out more precisely the responsibilities of the sanitary inspector and the State Inspectorate, which we also welcome, because it is often present on the ground that an inspector comes every week and controls the same activities that have already been reviewed. And yet there is still a practice to go first into punishment, and then in some sort of correction of unconditional business, so it must be pointed out again that the State Inspectorate is operating in the full sense of the announced, and I use the opportunity to say that a large part of our economies now have a problem in business because of the crown virus, especially those operating with Italy, so I ask you what you plan to do in this direction to compensate our economy, especially exporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188232	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188233	It is certain that the appearance of the crown virus has caused a whole series of disturbances in the economic business of all companies around the world, and so probably our companies in Croatia. I can't tell you as the Minister of Health of this country how much we as a state can affect aid or in some way financial compensation to our, our employers who suffer from this particular loss, but I believe that in the coming period when some concrete data is obtained from the effectiveness of this negative, negative influence, here we have now declared it finally and epidemics, will do everything on the side of the government to reduce these, these financial damages to the greatest possible measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188234	Mr. Bully asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188235	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for ten minutes to discuss this law, because if it's not a gliphosate chemical, then what we're talking about, and the international cancer organization in 2015 led to the conclusion that the cause of the tumor is carcinogenic, and that it's carcinogenic, so glyphosate. And when the secretary of the Ministry of Health says this is not his job, and it is being debated about chemicals in the Republic of Croatia, then it is astounding, and even when we see that last year Austria banned in its Parliament glyphosate in the seventh month, when we say that Angela Merkel said that she would deal with this harmful, harmful chemical, that Macron who announced the fight against glyphosate would be accounted for and said that in 2021, when the European Union is fighting, that is, Parliament is fighting lobbyists within the European Parliament to ban glyphosate... gets an extension until 2022, when we have nine thousand lawsuits of respectable secretaries in America people, where doctors found that glyphosate is the cause of the tumors they got, you're saying it's not a topic, and we're discussing chemicals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Vukkovic claims there is no problem with the glyphosate, for which you work, whose lobbyists, whether Monsant or Bayernov, absolutely irrelevant, it was Monsant's product. This is harmful, glyphosate is harmful, and this is embarrassing when I hear from the Ministry of Health that it's not their job. Whose job is it to protect our citizens from that dangerous, dangerous chemical, that herbicide? This is a shame, you are ashamed of this statement, and I am sending a message to Minister Vukkovic to see Marcon, Merkel, in the Austrian Parliament that has already made a decision on the ban. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188236	Thank you very much. She's been granted a break until, and there's another one, no, well, she's been granted a break until 9:00 and 55 minutes, 13 minutes you have Mr. Bulj for consulting, 13 minutes I've approved. [[It's 09.42 hours.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:56 AM]] Mr. Ivan Kirin will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188238	... Now, it's working. [[Speaker not enabled]] But you heard me. I hope this part. This law implements the EU directive in Croatian legislation and ensures the implementation of EU acts. In order to protect human life and health, and to protect the environment from the harmful effects of chemicals, the laws on chemicals are laid down conditions that must be met by legal and natural persons to carry out the activities of production, placing on the market and use of chemicals, and the conditions for carrying out service or brokerage operations where they do not come into direct contact with chemicals. The Chemical Act has been amended in 2018. for the implementation of the reform measure under the 2018 National Reform Programme in order to ensure a prerequisite for the start of the work of the State Inspectorate or to take over inspection tasks from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health. In relation to the current Chemical Act, the legislative proposal proposes to amend or supplement certain provisions in order to comply with new rules in the field of chemicals adopted at EU level. These are provisions concerning the authorisation of activities with dangerous chemicals, provisions on the organisation of knowledge acquisitions of dangerous chemicals, the implementation and verification of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals, provisions concerning the placing on the market of certain categories of dangerous chemicals, and provisions on certain inspection powers of sanitary inspectors in relation to the prohibition of carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. Issues to be settled by law are proposed by the legislative proposal for the purpose of discharging economic operators, in particular in the case of legal and physical persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals, to delete the provision on the obligation of the authorisation to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals, but without changing the conditions for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. The suspension of the obligation to carry out that authorisation in economic cases, in particular to legal and physical persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals, would reduce the financial burden associated with the start of the activity and speed up the start of the activity. And given that according to the data analysed, it is for 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The supervision of legal and physical persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals shall continue to be carried out by sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate. Amendments to the provisions on the organisation of knowledge acquisitions, protection against dangerous chemicals, implementation and verification of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals will allow the acquisition of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals and this will be carried out by HZJZ. Provisions on the powers of competent sanitary inspectors are also amended, in particular in the part of the ban on carrying out activities without compliance with the prescribed conditions, and in order to protect human health and the environment. It's very important in the new law. 5. This Article deletes the power of the Minister of Health to adopt a Regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous chemicals, as that authority has been prescribed for further compliance with the Council of Europe Directive and the European Community Directive 1990. which have ceased to apply with the beginning of the full application of Regulation No. 1272/2008. In People’s Newspaper No. 60 of 30 May 2015 Regulation concerning the placing out of force of the Regulation on the classification, labelling, labelling and packaging of dangerous chemicals which entered into force on 1 June 2015 has been published. The legal basis for the adoption of the Regulation is deleted because that topic is no longer governed by the national Regulation, but by the direct application of the Regulation of the European Community. 2272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe and this was adopted on 16 December 2008. In the case of an art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. which ceased to apply in the application of Regulation 649/2012, the rights and obligations of entities in the business of chemicals carrying out the activity of importing and exporting dangerous chemicals. The implementation of Regulation 649/2012 in the Republic of Croatia is ensured by the Law implementing Regulation No 649/2012 on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. In addition to Article 8, which is relevant to this Article, for the purpose of discharging economic operators, in a specific case of legal and natural persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals, the obligation to carry out authorisations for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals is deleted but without amending the conditions for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. In addition to Article 3, the concept of the production of dangerous chemicals is very important. Production is the production and processing, design, processing, filling, streaming, mixing of chemicals into intermediate products and final products with chemical, physical and biological processes and processes, and transfer and inter-storagement within the products of the site. Production within the meaning of this point is considered to be the production of substances and mixtures. The manufacturer shall be a legal and natural person who manufactures the chemical in accordance with point 6 of this Article but also any other person who completes, repacks or changes its name for further use. The name change is not considered to translate chemicals into Croatian. Furthermore, the placing on the market is import, import, purchase and sale of chemicals to small and large, and intervention. The placing on the market of chemicals is also considered to deliver or make the chemical available to a third party with a fee or free of charge. Imports are considered to be placing on the market. Imports are any introduction into the customs territory of the European Union. The entry is any introduction into the territory of the Republic of Croatia from another Member State of the European Union. Exports are any exports of chemicals outside the customs territory of the European Union. The importer shall be a legal or natural person who, in order to carry out the registered activity, imports of chemicals into the European Union. The exporter shall be a legal and natural person who, in order to carry out the registered activity, exports of chemicals beyond the European Union's borders. However, it is also noted in this Law that there are provisions of law which do not apply to radioactive substances and preparations which are governed by specific regulations. Substances and mixtures which are subject to customs supervision and which are located in a temporary warehouse in a free zone or a free warehouse for re-export or in transit, provided that no processing or processing is carried out. Uninsulated... substances and mixtures for scientific research and development and quality control of products and other analytical purposes which are not placed on the market provided that they are used under supervised conditions in accordance with specific rules governing workplace protection and environmental protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Waste which is also regulated by specific regulations, plant protection products, other than production, delivery, safety-technical list, production records and previous consent procedures for plant protection products. Chemicals used for defence purposes, explosive substances that are regulated by special regulations. Mineral fertilisers which are also regulated by special regulations. Drugs and their threatening regulated specific regulations, other than threatening drugs of category 2 and third category. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to substances and mixtures in the final form intended for end-users, such as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products, cosmetic products, medical products, food and food for animals, including food additives, flavourings, additives for animal feed and animal nutrition in accordance with specific rules. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to the transport and transport of chemicals in air, maritime, road, rail, postal and inland waterways. In Article 13, it is important to mention the legal and natural person who carries out the production, marketing and use of dangerous chemicals must meet the following conditions: to have structures built from solid material with special accommodation and working rooms with dangerous chemicals, to have adequate equipment that must be technically resistant to the action of chemicals with which they are touched, and devices, appliances and measuring instruments in the correct state. According to the scope and nature of its operations, depending on the properties of dangerous chemicals, workers and responsible persons with completed university degree studies or specialist degree studies of appropriate orientation, under which all parts of the work with dangerous chemicals are carried out, with the required knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals. It must have health care professionals capable of working with dangerous chemicals, possess personal protective equipment for each worker who handles dangerous chemicals, have the means to provide first aid and decontamination, and to maintain general hygiene of the premises and personal hygiene of workers. In the case of an art. 17. Each worker working in the workplace with dangerous chemicals is obliged to acquire knowledge of protection from dangerous chemicals. The organisation of the knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals, the implementation and verification of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals, and the issue of a certificate of acquired, acquired knowledge provide a health care institution or a legal person who has the authority to carry out those tasks. The Rules on terms and conditions of acquisition, and verify the knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals, shall be carried out by the Minister. The costs of the implementation of the knowledge acquisition referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be borne by the applicant. The approval provided for in Article 2 of this Article shall be decided by a decision adopted by the Minister. No appeal is allowed against the solution set out in Article 5 of this article, but an administrative dispute may be initiated against it. Among other things, there are prescribed fines for legal persons who do not respect the law. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] HDZ Club will support this law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] This law shall enter into force from 8 days after its adoption and publication in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188239	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic will speak now on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188240	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing the law doesn't have any more articles because my colleague Kirin seems to be reading all the articles of this law to us. I was wondering if there was anything to say because the SDP club supports this legal proposal since there were no changes between the two readings, and there were no changes in content, except in nomotechnical terms. Therefore, normally, if we supported our first reading, we would do so today. But here I have answered for a simple reason, and I feel a little uncomfortable, and I believe that today our work would be practically over at the time of a half-time football game. I think you too feel a contempt that citizens feel for us and work that lasts one whole day, just for a half-time, I don't think it's good. He would therefore ask the leadership of the assembly to make our work more content. There are many points that have not been discussed, a 2016 report by the Committee on Higher Education and Science has not yet been discussed, so let us let the reputation of Parliamentarians be greater than it will be after such sessions as this one today. What I want to say about the law itself, I'm going to say that we can talk about two directions to this law, which is important. Therefore, the first release of the economy is, but with the exception of all the conditions necessary to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals and others, the achievement of all conditions for environmental and human health protection, including that the acquisition of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals will be carried out by HZZZ. Thus, the law will ensure that the economy is disbursed, but it will in no way endanger human health and the human environment. For this reason, the SDP Club supports this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188241	Thank you very much, Mr. Curaj will speak for the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188242	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Friday morning, favorite, favorite time for real debates. In fact, very short. As regards the reasons for the adoption of this law by harmonising regulations in the field of chemicals adopted at EU level, I should not repeat them all concerning authorisations to carry out activities and acquire knowledge of protection, then provisions on placing on the market, etc. In fact, inspection powers. What is most important and what I have also said in the replica, what I want to repeat here, but also to instruct all other public authorities or all ministries to work further on the same example, because, in fact, erasure of the provisions on the obligation to carry out the authorisation to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals most often after they have come out and have a solution actually to carry out the activities themselves or to meet all the conditions for carrying out the same activities. So we've had a situation, and it's not just a word here, but we have a lot of those administrative barriers that we're all talking about, we're all talking about, which cost time, time is money, it costs and money itself through some notes, through some taxes, fees, etc. that you will, and says here that there are them in 2018. 360 solutions, so 360 solutions, 360 business entities in one year deal with this business, activities, whether these are deratiations, whether these are different sanitizations, gave it to treating mosquitoes, so all that actually uses certain chemicals in their work, of course and others, and other ones more serious and production systems, they have to result in conditions, get the green light to report the activity, but after that they still have to wait for a solution. And again, administratively, I get the approval to carry out the activities for which they have met the conditions that they once saw again. So it's ladies and gentlemen of the Republic of Croatia today in 2020. This is good, this is a good way, and this is why I just want to go out here to simply point to this illogicality that has not been used at all, and hopefully when we go into this discharge project that we've set ourselves up for this year and for the next year and for all the parafiscal duties and administrative certain barriers that there will actually be a need for less public service, is someone doing something like that. And I hope that once and for all, we will make an effective and economical state administration in which we will be employed in a transparent and unique public tender that I have already spoken here many times, and that we have really good quality, not that we are inventing a job for people who work there to have what to do. And this is a good thing, and I commend once again this proposal from the Ministry of Health to go and to the level of much, watch out for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act, so the law that I think today is rarely heard of, that tomorrow rarely anyone will know that there is even other than those who do so. And you know how many laws we have where there's something that should be. Let's go even faster, let's go as far as we can, let's be as normal an efficient and legal state as it should be. Thank you. Of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188243	Thank you very much. We welcome you to the gallery of political students of the Political Academy of the Croatian National Testament Foundation, thank you for being with us. Please give it up. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Let's move on with the clubs. Mr. Davor Vlaovic in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188244	Thank you, Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. On behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club, here are a few words about the Chemical Act. We are in line with the EU directives with this law and I must commend myself on going to make it easier for companies operating in the Republic of Croatia to deal with chemicals and other dangerous substances. It is certainly good to point out that this bill simplifies the conditions for business, reduces administration and that, with the necessary conditions for dealing with chemicals, no longer has to be a special solution and thus reduces administration, but it certainly is also a financial burden on the economy, it would be good if we can get that information, as is certain that these are related and different administrative fees, time and certainly making it difficult for business to do so. And when we mention administrative fees, then it should be pointed out according to the data that could have been made for 2017 to charge about 224 million kuna in the state budget and budgets of local and regional self-government and on the basis of administrative fees, i.e. a taxi or a note, as it is called in our people. And certainly, as a legislator, we should consider what more savings we can make in terms of abolishing these administrative fees, unnecessary taxis because, especially since we never got complete information on what that money is spent on. This draws somehow the overall fiscal potential of the Republic of Croatia and has no special purpose for most of these administrative fees does not have a special purpose in terms of spending and it would be good, if it is already charged to know that it is then going into development, into employment and other segments, rather than for strengthening and awakening the administration, which, behold, is happening in the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to point out that there is a caution or warning on the Committee on Health that in dealing with chemicals and dangerous substances, there is still a need for special attention because if someone can do business and there is no special solution, which they have had to have so far, it is certainly important to point out that they have to obtain special conditions for the handling of chemicals and dangerous substances and that this will be supervised by both the State Inspectorate and the Sanitary Inspector, and in this function remains the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which we welcome, because there have often been overlapping in the field of competence of different inspectors and our masters often refer to criticism not, at weekly or monthly level, different inspectors, reviewing the same things, the same, overlapping in their responsibilities, and at the end of what is also important for those who have often gone first with penalties, and then with some instructions to correct deficiencies in business. I hope that the State Inspectorate will function in the fullest sense of that word because it was announced here that it will go first with warnings, with some deadlines until these irregularities have to be corrected, and only then will it go with penalties. Certainly it is still on the ground because it is obviously not yet put on the ground to all inspectors to go immediately with penalties, which is certainly not good if we want to develop the economy and new employment. And it is important to say that the economy, as well as the chemical industry in Croatia, expects stronger support from the government and the competent ministries in terms of lack of labour and that they would gladly raise salaries in the chemical industry in the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately there is still too much pressure through tax burdens and other non-taxable burdens on this industry. Well, here's an example: a chemical laboratory technician has an average salary in the Republic of Croatia from 3887 kn to 6700. Chemical technician from 3857 to 6500 kn, chemist from 4600 to 8500 kn. If we compare this with average wages per region, then we see that the city of Zagreb for 2017 has an average net salary of 6990 kn, Brod-Posavina County 5200 and Vukovar-Srijem County only 5085 kn. We see this terrible lag from nearly 1700 to 2000 kn, the county of Slavonski i.e. on the town of Zagreb, and most of the industry is present in the city of Zagreb and we see that he is also pulling part of the workforce from Slavonia. If we want to stop the eviction, then we need to find models to raise wages in companies that do business and in Slavonia. I would also like to point out that the chemical industry is also very important for the development of agriculture because this is about the production of various pesticides, mainly our chemical industry is quite present, following world trends, but what is now happening through the European Green Plan is a great pressure on agriculture in terms of reducing pollution and dropping greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Of course, agricultural producers welcome the European Green Plan, they want to be part of it, but they do not want different legal provisions to be formed without them, and they will pay. So here, for example, when an insecticide, chlorpyrifos, which is very important in fruit growing, is banned or banned, then our agricultural producers must find models to compensate them for the damage they will have in production. Of course, those chemical substances that have been declared dangerous and harmful to human health at the world level should also be mentioned here, then Croatia must be there to ban the use of such chemicals in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, to reduce the use of mineral fertilisers, soil and groundwater pollution to nitrites and nitrates, but certainly, models must be found to finance agricultural production, alternative fertilisers, biological preparations, etc. to follow the green trend Europe is asking of the Republic of Croatia. And I would repeat here what I said in the replica that our economies, craftsmen, entrepreneurs are already suffering damage to the crown of the virus, especially those who do business abroad, Italy, France and Germany, and especially smaller family crafts and carriers cannot follow orders that go, lose certain jobs, and once you lose a partner in Italy, then it's hard to go back to the market again and surely we need to find models to help our economy. Here is the tourism minister who has already pointed out that the tourist season is suffering that, by now, around EUR 20 million has been estimated and we have certain resources in the state budget from which it can and should be compensated, but it is certainly necessary to look for models from the EU through exceptional means of elemental disasters to come up with a model for how to withdraw these funds and help our economy because the fact that we have to keep jobs in Croatia, that we also need to make sure that through this Law on chemicals where the economy is being relieved we come up with models to help the economy in the Republic of Croatia to have jobs and that we have jobs with salaries from which our people will be able to live and remain alive in those underdeveloped areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188245	And the last club is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, says Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188246	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that Friday, our parliamentary representatives are obviously too busy, I only live 400 km from Zagreb and probably have bigger obligations in Zagreb as well. He would welcome the secretary of state, and he would especially welcome our students who, unfortunately, see the half-empty i.e. literally an almost empty assembly, but if the vote was by the distinguished students would see that they would come up neatly here with their hands. However, This is about the law, it's about chemicals on amendments and additions to the law that is an EU directive, otherwise, here in Parliament every day, we get what we prescribe from the EU, what we send here from Brussels, we raise our hands, as far as this law itself carries good things, but that is the EU directive, the harmonisation with the EU in which we are unequal on a number of issues, so on this issue we are also unequal. [[Intruder: And you can greet each individual, you can also greet.]] Here is the meaning of chemicals and everything about our industry, employment, trade in the Republic of Croatia, it is also a significant branch, and of course it needs to be done, it needs to be coordinated. However, I would talk about what is most important, which is when it comes to human health, when I said that 2015 is an international organization that, in the fight against cancer has said that glyphosate is a carcogen, I have also given the law on the ban on glyphosate not what came to mind, it is Monsant's product which, of course, I have given a ban on GMOs selling, transporting, planting GMOs, unfortunately, the parliamentary representatives have not accepted, but we import a lot and food that is treated with these dangerous chemicals, and no one in Croatia is controlling it. Croatia imports a billion kunas of pork fed by soybeans treated with glyphosate. We have 9,000 counts of lawsuits in the U.S. where doctors said people got glyphosate cancer. And we in the Republic of Austria, in the Republic of Croatia, keep quiet about it, no, but the minister says that it is not a dangerous glyphosate and that it is not yet thinking, while Austria in its home, in its parliament banned the use of monsanto's glyphosate from Monsanto's product. While Merkel, Angela Merkel, said she would fight this harmful chemical, while Macron also said many others, Portugal has already partially banned and banned certain countries, the Minister of Agriculture said it is okay, and the secretary of the health ministry says it is not his job, it is the Ministry of Agriculture. So what is above the health of our inhabitants and security? So in Austria, Austria can ban, Croatia will not ban, and we have proven that we import pork, a billion kunas of pork we import, every year more and more that is fed by soy where they are, where soybeans are grown on the surfaces where this glyphosate is treated. And that's a familiar thing. And no one controls that meat, no one. So, we all of these regulations that we prescribe, the directives should be in the interest and manufacture of chemical compounds, chemicals, protection on the market, protection of workers' rights because it is so on the market. Chemistry is a production that was growing in the 20th century and it will grow, but why don't we protect the health of our inhabitants from dangerous compounds that interests me. I gave this law on the ban on glyphosate and the government gives a negative opinion, the minister doesn't matter. Let's say, let's see beekeepers rebel in areas where and in countries where they're treated with glyphosate, the bees are extinct, very important, the bees are very important, we know that, as a pollinator, and we know what happens if there's no bees. But obviously no one is interested, Minister Vukkovic says no matter what we forbid, it's obviously on the side of the Monsanta lobby or who already owns it, they've brought everything together with Bayer, GMOs, our agriculture declines, and what ours, meaning agricultural goods fail, 790,000 square kilometers we have unprocessed agricultural land in the Republic, ecologically preserved and we all seek green production, we all strive to protect water. What's the impact of chemicals on water? There was a debate yesterday on climate change which the EU is now calling for the presidency of the Republic of Croatia as the most important climate change. What are the effects of these chemicals on water, on drinking water? So we're not asking these key questions where we're daily denying what we discussed yesterday. It rules every new law, every new directive it prescribes, every announcement and important thing is now the key to all climate change. We see a picture of a minister with people who are fighting climate change, and we see that we are absolutely doing nothing about it. We're not working on how it's even delayed indiscriminately at the dump site remains of chemical compounds. Who knows how many things there are in the dumps, how many of them are in the springs, how many chemical compounds. We take very little care and what will bring climate change, it is a reduction of drinking water, it is these areas of agricultural which will be drying less humidity, there will be problems, but we absolutely do nothing. Instead of dealing with green production, it's the most important thing and we control the waste as a tribune and that from the compost that remains to go to the agricultural surfaces, we still deal with things essentially contradictory ourselves. And I'm sorry I didn't get the answer and the health ministry's position on glyphosate. I'm interested in the attitude. Does the Department of Health have a view of glyphosate as a chemical compound? I follow it, I read what happens in Austria, what happens in other countries, what Macron says, what Merkel says, what lobbyists within the European Parliament have said, has been extended to 2022 in the European Parliament this, this one to get up to a complete ban, and it will probably reunite because lobbyists of these companies are quite powerful and influential and they are thus pushing their chemical compounds. I would just end up saying that I'm interested first of all in this directive that we've signed, and my colleagues have said all the good things or the bad things that should have changed here, and I'm only interested in this case since it's the Ministry of Health, what does he think about glyphosate, should we ban glyphosate in the Republic of Austria and other countries, in part, and other leaders of a much stronger country require the removal of glyphosate, what does the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia think? Here, I'd like an answer if I saw you sign up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188247	Thank you very much. And finally, the secretary of state, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, will have the final word on behalf of the ministry, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188248	Thank you very much. I answered primarily for the word that Mr. Bulju said what he said I said, that's not what I said, and I don't want anyone to abuse my words from this public pay phone HS. If you ask me what I think about glyphosate, then I can only give one lecture on glyphosate used in the world for 40 years, which has recently become the subject of scientific research and its potential impact on the cause of certain malignant diseases in humans and there are various institutions in the world that have been working on this from one aspect to another and the fact that to this day we do not have a unique scientific position on the carcinogenicity of glyphosate as a chemical herbicide that, I say, is being used in 40. If we look at the scientific aspect of Austria that banned the use of glyphosate a few years ago, but with a certain preparation to switch to such a agricultural production that will not be so dependent on glyphosate, which requires time and adaptations, and today they are largely producing so-called. ecologically acceptable food, which has clearly again certain, I would say, financial aspects of usefulness for such food. What is important is that in Austria it is not those diseases that were considered potentially malignancies stimulated or caused by glyphosate that have not been reduced in any way. What is very, very important if you ask me as a doctor, if someone proved that glyphosate is carcinogenic to the formation of non-hodgkin lymphoma I would be happy because it would simply solve the problem of the incidence of non-hodgkin lymphoma among our patients, it would be very simple. However, medicine is not so simple, it is much, much more complicated and it is today except for these things that fall within the scope of the action of chemical agents and all other agents on the incidence and frequency of malignancies is conditioned and some gemic or genetic predisposition can be assumed to develop certain diseases, including malignancies, on a daily basis. But it's one big topic, I wouldn't talk about it, it's just important to me that this law talks about the management of dangerous chemicals and chemicals as a whole. Therefore, the discussion on the definition of harmful chemicals, chemicals that are dangerous to human life or potentially dangerous to the development of any disease, regardless of whether they are malignant diseases, whether they are any chronic non-infectious diseases, it will be on some other law with other regulations then, and what I think about glyphosate as a representative of the Ministry of Health, unless it is proven to be a legitimate doubt, not evidence, but justifiable doubt that glyphosate is indeed cancerous, believe that we in Croatia will surely prohibit it, but while the European Directive until 2022 is in force until December, and until after that it is discussed whether it will be banned or not in the European Union, we must behave in the way that we do, and the European Union laws impose on us, because otherwise we would not be honorable or worthy members of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188249	Thank you, too. Before I give my word to my colleagues looking for replicas, I welcome Mr. Klisovic, who returned from self-insulation, although here you are... Surely given the number of MPs, I think you'll be quite protected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Ivan Celic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188250	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, colleagues Bulj, this biggest promoter of Monsanta, he keeps mentioning Monsanto, so there should be talked about the fact that, therefore, the International Agency for Cancer Research, which has classified glyphosate as probably a carcinogenic for humans as part of the World Health Organization, the European Food Safety Agency has said that it is unlikely that there is a risk of gliphosate carcinogen activity on humans as well as the European Chemicals Agency based in Helsinki that is responsible for this matter that we are discussing today, so the European Chemicals Agency's position is that glyphosate does not belong to the category of carcinogenic substances. And as the Secretary of State mentioned, the European Commission has granted approval by December 2022, it will definitely be subject to various professional symposiums, but let's not be more papal than the Pope, and on the other hand let's not give any advice like a colleague Pernar treats flu with vitamin C.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188251	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Injury, he was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188252	Thank you very much. My colleague, the Honorable Chairman, injured Article 238, because he was replicating me, and I wasn't, so... To replicate to me, it could be to replicate to the Proposer, so you've hurt the Rules of Procedure here, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188253	Yes, unfortunately, it has become one practice in this House, in this case Mr. Bulj, Mr. Bulj is right in this case I must say, I will not give him any warning, but, however, because it has become a practice, but Mr. Bulj is right in this case. In this case. .../Laughter./... Let's move on, second injury, second, excuse me, Miro Bulj, Mr. Miro Bulj now has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188254	Thank you very much. That's all you've told me, dear secretary, you can read it on Google, open it up, as herbicide glyphosate came into existence, you haven't said anything spectacularly, except you forgot to say it was 2015. The international cancer organization said that the cause, that it has carcinogenity elements, means glyphosate, and nine thousand lawsuits in the United States are with medical certificates, and some have already been obtained, that the cause of the tumor is glophosate, numerous, means nine thousand in the United States alone, and you haven't yet answered me who controls animals that use chemistry and dangerous compounds, animal meat, for example pork billion kunas, we import and it is in our markets, and they use theirs that is treated with glyphosate and who knows what chemicals our people eat, and our people are at risk of health. Can you explain it to me as a minister, as a representative of the Ministry of Health and this government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188255	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188256	Well, I don't know if anyone else explained how glyphosate can be found in the meat of some domestic animals, because glyphosate as much as I know agronomia, and I'm not an agronomist, you probably know, and that should ask more of them and those who deal with veterinary, glyphosate only binds to plant leaves, and as far as I know, animals don't really eat the leaves of those plants, so the question is whether or not... I beg your pardon?... [[Intruder: not understood.]] [[Intruder: not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188257	Excuse me, allow Mr. Secretary of State to answer the question. ... Excuse me. [[Intruder: not understood.]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188258	I'm talking about those plants that are treated with herbicides in agriculture, that's what plants are about, so they can potentially be used as a diet for animals. But these are really questions that I don't know if anyone in this world could say how potentially there is glyphosate in meat that people consume, well, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188259	Okay. From, I'm sorry, can we move on? ... Okay. [[Intruder: not understood.]] Mr. Ivica Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188260	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm now asking you what would happen in the world if we had biofood, and we don't have any chemical products that have been used today in agriculture where there are 7 billion people in this world now, to behave, of course, that we wouldn't be able to feed that part of the world, and there's no reasonable doubt that there's any carcinogens in it, in the glycoslophate, therefore I think that experts take over this thing, and that they do, of course, as they do today and always do, the number of people, so the diet has to be big, but of course everybody would like it to be a bioproduct, and there's a chance... And then we'd have to close down like a state, not be open, then we'd eat just like that, but from Europe really come the products that they produce and we eat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we don't understand that thing enough... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188261	Thank you, time. Thank you. Okay. Now I'm actually closing the debate, and we'll vote when they get traditional, when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-06-0.u188262	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 814. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Chemical Act. Who's against it? Restraint? And who's in? I find that most of the votes are 114 for, 5 abstentions and 2 against the bill of amendments and addition of the Chemical Act. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We'll go, of course, as always with free speeches, but before that, I would only ask you to base an article. 247. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the HS conduct a united discussion on the following two points. These are: Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2017 and Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2018. Do we agree with that proposal? If so, thank you very much and we'll discuss these points together.
