ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u8	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I want to congratulate all the candidates. on your terms, and I hope we all work together to improve our only country. Today I will talk about the freedoms that we all enjoy, and often we take for granted. In the defensive Homeland War, many have laid down their lives for our country from Slavonic plains, Green Like to Christian Dalmatia and Herzegovina. These brave warriors and warriors died for the ideals and freedoms in which we all enjoy today either the political, economic, or the personal. We are those brave men responsible. We are responsible for safeguarding the rights and freedoms that our ancestors could only dream of. During each crisis, whether it is global, national or local under the exception of security, the pieces of that freedom are taken away. The latest example of such policies that are increasingly present in the world and recently have the opportunity to see similar policies in Croatia, namely Minister Beroš announced a stop Covid-19 application created by the state agency APIS, which will be able to be installed voluntarily on our private phones. The following day, however, he announced a mandatory application installation if the situation around the virus's corona deteriorates, and the assumption of this government and so on. The headquarters that exactly that scenario will happen in the fall. In other words, the state wants access to our phones, information and data. They will, of course, justify that move under the exception of security and our personal protection. Of course, like many times so far, they have once again looked up to their mother Europe. The countries of Europe began to make applications for the Covid monitoring model of Asian countries such as China, which one of the first took so-called "Covid". monitoring contact with infected persons. The Chinese authorities are using this application as a means of monitoring their citizens, limiting free movement, giving personal data to third parties, of course, all with an argument to protect them as citizens. Today, these same Chinese authorities announce that such applications will be mandatory even after the crown of the crisis has ceased because once a state has established such a system of control of its citizens, the authorities have no reason to leave that kind of power. It is not my goal here to compare the democratically elected Croatian Parliament and the government with totalitarian China and its policies, but we must be aware that such moves are greatly possible for the structures of the government to manipulate private data citizens. But we return to the applications themselves and their efficiency or ineffectiveness. South Korea, Singapore, Australia, France, Israel, Germany, many countries have been using similar applications for several months that have been downloaded millions of times by their citizens and have proved to be absolutely useless in their use for these few months. Australia had a country of 25 million people in the first month and a half of the year to download the application, which was official by their government and had only 11 tips in that month and a half. They have not shown much better in other countries, so we have to ask ourselves why our government spends taxpayers' money on projects that have proved to be not effective in its basic function. It is expected that by ruling to continue with such free projects that throw taxpayers' money into the wind, I would recommend that they set up a few more agencies, for example, this way. as a bluetooth connection agency or Android installation agency or Apple app. Because if we judge by the current policies of the government agencies never enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u20	Let's go to the free speech now. He is the first respected representative, Miro Bulj, to present the position of the club of representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u21	Thank you very much, President. My fellow citizens and fellow citizens, here I am talking about what is most pressing to me, and also the people in the area where I come from, so I come from the Cetina province of Sinj and we are proud of our Cetina, we are proud of our Sinjsko Alka, we are proud of everything we have to offer, and of course that many people are mainly now in front of us at the time of the Sinj Alka and the Velka Lady pilgrimage in Sinj, but here this crisis itself will not be possible in this very way, but here we all expect you in Sinj, especially all those who can come.' However, I will talk here about a very important project, a project that is, about agglomeration in the area of the city of Sinj, it means today in Sinj, through the centre of the passage of fecal, feces, open channels, at hotels, high schools, elementary schools, kindergarten, means simply passing without any, is not closed but an open channel through... in the Sinjsko field where people grow their agricultural products and it goes straight, directly into the river Cetina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a project of agglomeration in this financial period in 2013-2020, this project should be completed by 2023, all these agreements have been signed, this has been funded by the Ministry, that is, 80% of EU Funds via the Ministry of Environment and Croatian Waters, of course and Croatian, and the Cetinan Waterway as local self-government 20% of these funds are secured. Public procurement was carried out nearly four months ago, with this agglomeration and strategic project in the protection of the river Cetina, of course, and the health of the inhabitants, as I say through the centre of Sinja passing means open sewerage. But three months, here's the fourth month no one, public procurement is open, 60% is more expensive than the highest bid offered, somewhere around 160 million kuna. But what's three months of silence for? This is why Croatian waters, local self-government and the Cetin region water, and in other cases Croatian waters that have been included and financed that part, such as now they are investigating the market, which is the price on the market, will cancel public procurement or will accept public procurement, so dear gentlemen, in 2023, we have to start working, I expect, now I have asked the question, if it could in other units of local self-government, for example Novalja, Čakovec, this surplus is co-financed by larger offers, which is why it is not done to protect Sinj, which is why it is not protected by Cetina, which is why only painting on the Sinjska alcia and a promise, such as Minister Pavić's formerly said that they have given investment funds or, as well as he praises Prime Minister Plenkovic about the new project Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika and this Gorski Kotar, two and this mountain, here is one hundred million kuna, let the city's which is immediately separateing the city of the city and the city of health and the city. If we can talk in a way that this project is strategic, that is significant, he entered as a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia, then we have no reason to lead Croatia, Ministry of the Environment, now the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, do not launch, I do not see any reason, if it could in other cities and local self-governments, why not here. If we mention the Dalmatian Zagora and the new two-and-a-half billion kuna project, so here's 100 million kuna, it's enough that after all these praises about good successes in the European Union after the Presidency of the European Council, here are a hundred and fifty million kunas for this project, estimated at 302 million kunas, which have been provided with 302 million kuna, but here are the works of this project team, which include both Croatian waters and local self-government have not well assessed these works. If it could be in other cities, why is Sinj, Cetinski, and Dalmatian Zagora forgotten?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u22	Time. Thank you. Next, the presentation of the position on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u33	... Croatian Parliament, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. [[The speaker subsequently turned on the microphone]] So, as I come from Slavonia and I am a child from the cattle family who for over fifty years is involved in the production of milk and heroin, I consider my duty to speak in this high house precisely about the problems that suffer, not only the livestock sector but the entire agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. Today we have listened to very beautiful, I will say praises about how we have received great money from the European Union and how the bright future awaits us, but is that really how it is? I would like to start with the time behind us, two weeks ago the harvest ended, so we reaped the most important culture in which we are only self-sufficient in agricultural production, which is the harvest of wheat, and so our politicians, who are quite loud and are fond of boasting, first started with estimates of about a million tons of wheat expected to be such a breed or yield. Yes, our farmers have been good this year, and they have managed to produce large quantities that actually ranged from 5.5 tonnes and up to 9 tons per hectare, but then they're going to suffer for them, in a number of ways. First of all, I believe that the state has failed them again because it has allowed the buyers to do the reckonings in the way they wish. So, what happened is that the vast majority of these harvested and dedicated wheat are back in the livestock food category, there's a huge price difference, and neither our Ministry nor any of the associated agencies have worked hard to make control or super control, subcontrol, whatever we call, to see if these quality calculations are really what they show up for, because a large part of our farmers are going to get far below one kuna per kilogram of produced wheat. In addition, I would mention here an example of the Republic of Serbia, which is not usually an example to me, but in this case, it will be, which has made such a move of praise that it has bought everything that their farmers have produced for its needs, i.e. for goods supplies. Croatia does not, and Serbia has also offered to buy the kuna and 30, such a price would save every farmer. Also, the Republic of Serbia has an established registered stock exchange of agricultural products, the Republic of Serbia does not. When we talk about cattle, so about livestock production, the Republic of Croatia also has, or our cattlemen have a large number of cattle drowned, heroes, lambs, nowhere with them. And there would certainly help us with a stock exchange or a ransom in the goods supply of the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about food shortages, and we're letting cattle get slaughtered in black and do nothing about it. Also, the Republic of Croatia does not know at all who determines the price of agricultural products in any way. We often call for the Budapest Stock Exchange, however, there is a huge difference between the circumstances in which our farmers produce and farmers in other EU countries. In short, I must mention the reasons for the decline of the dairy sector in the Republic of Croatia, so I must mention that the reasons why Meggle is said to be leaving Croatia are, in part, those mentioned correctly in the media, however, the big problem of me and in uncertainty, the availability of raw materials because of what Croatia has done in the last 10 years? We are out of 62,000 economies that produced milk in 2012, fell to less than 4 thousand. Even in Meggle, they see that every year we lose 5% of the total stock of cattle or cows that are in the production of milk. The question is, when are they going to run out of raw materials? On the other hand, such a situation has contributed to a number of unfortunate things that our cattlemen or milk producers had to survive, so I will now only mention here an affair of aflatoxins which the cattlemen have not forgotten, which have hardly survived, so vaccination from the disease of lumpy skin that has caused huge damage to our cattle stock, and they are not calmed down, so I will also mention the removal of agricultural land to cattle farmers. So back a few years ago, and I would dare say 20 years ago, cattlemen constantly have a problem with taking away agricultural land, which simply overpower their problem by taking possession of other people's private areas that are expensive. Inaccessible and difficult to process. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u34	Thank you. The next presentation of the position on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u51	Representatives and MPs. I'd like to give a brief review of all the topics we've been talking about for the past two days. Whether it's an earthquake law or a multi-year financial framework. All these topics have several common links, and they also answer the question why we are as a state and a society of poor people. Well, because we're mismanaging, because we don't have any effective control over the government. Today I want to say that I suggest we try to change that. In fact, when we talked about the earthquake law, we realized that we had come up with legislative solutions without establishing a real state before that. We have not even defined the clear goal that we want to achieve by this law. For example, we have not determined how many damaged apartments are in the city centre owned by the Republic of Croatia, how much owned by the city itself, and we have not considered what will happen when we open Pandora's box of transparency. I would like to say that at some point we must answer the question whether we can manage and use the property of the state and the city in a more useful way. So whether this law or regional development, agricultural policy, energy, the protection of socially endangered groups, all these policies involve the distribution of large financial resources. And I claim that the prerequisite for all policies is to introduce order and rules in the country from top to bottom. Today, I only mentioned a few constitutional provisions that are ignored in practice. However, at the level of all laws, there is much that one is conflicting with one another or one has nothing to do with the goal that is normatively or declaratively meant to be achieved. I suggest we need urgent implementation of strong anti-corruption policies and measures. Otherwise, of all the major financial envelopes and loans that are supposed to be cheap on the international financial market, there will be nothing. There will be further borrowing and further poverty on our citizens and a great noose on the burden of the economy. The current anti-corruption strategy for the 2015-2020 period soon expires. No new strategy is even being prepared. I have a document prepared at the end of last year that I sent to the Croatian Parliament, and there are five chapters. Two are the key that I'd like to say a little bit more about right now. One is transparency. Transparency involves not only the publication of all payments and payments from the state budget at all levels of the state government. In both ministries, so in agencies, so in all bodies that are financed in any way by public budget. Transparency in my opinion would mean setting up a whole series of registers that no one has spoken about before, nor have we taken into account, and there are examples of good practice in other countries, for example, in already neighbouring Slovenia. Full transparency would mean the establishment of a register in which all business relations with the State and with all other individual public authorities would be visible. Those contracts would show who's the client, who's the executioner. What is the subject of the contract, which is the price, which are the conditions of delivery, how the method of execution is controlled, how the contract can be broken and, ultimately, how much the contract is paid. When we talk about the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb, one such register would be of great benefit. In this register, all lease contracts or real estate leases owned by a state or a unit of local and regional self-government would be visible and could be well controlled by what is now a great unknown to us, for example, who will ultimately be the real winners or losers of the reconstruction that will be carried out in the city of Zagreb. Of course, control or transparency without control actually means nothing. I would like to point to the fact that we need to further strengthen and strengthen the body that will sanction those who show transparency but do not view it as something that can harm their reputation risk as those who, behold, have channeled something into their private pockets or into some of their own interest circles. I would like to say that the powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest must be expanded, strengthened, given strong tools and strong sanctions so that we can really say that by fighting corruption, this country really means to deal with it. Addressing the problem in the judiciary can't wait for the fall. I suggest that those clubs be formed as soon as possible, those working bodies of HS that will raise this issue and propose some concrete solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u77	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u78	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In history, a lot of tragedies and accidents started with a sentence I'm here to help you. This year I warned that the wards in the homes were not protected enough, and now I am obliged to warn that some under the exception of protection have become prisoners. I'm not exaggerating. The home users themselves and their families describe the situation in some homes. They've been quarantined since March with a minor break, slowly going on a new normal and that dance with the virus as they happily call it, flowing. Visits have recently been allowed again, but difficult. Some homes have waited for days to be spent and reorganized, and you will see for yourself, believe me if you are not aware of this, with years your days are becoming more valuable and you have less and less time. Don't protect me from my harm, those letters and requests could be summed up in a short time. The main concern and protection of homes for the elderly from the entry of the coronaryvirus is not only the problem of the protégé and the users and cannot be, and cannot be protected only, while those who protect them have complete freedom of movement. I have looked at the Law on the execution of prison sentences and prisoners, they are said to have the right to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards, contact with the outside world and stay in the open area of the penitentiary for at least 2 hours a day. Besides dancing with the virus, we've been dancing for a long time between the need for freedom and security. It's not a simple dance, there's a lot of mistakes in the steps, it's rough, it's not pretty, it's too often and it's often and it's stupid. For example. This place where I stand is called a pay phone. I'm asking you, dear colleagues and colleagues, why don't we all have an individual discussion and a discussion in front of the club and in finals we talk from this pay phone? So people can see our passions, see our expressions, see what kind of heat we're talking about and how we're talking about problems. I think this is a stupid situation and we can change it by one agreement. Finally, it was my proposal back in 2011. Coronavirus has found the whole world, it is new to everyone, we learn, we find ourselves having second thoughts, let us remember that Croatia is a relatively young democracy and we need to be particularly careful in these extraordinary circumstances that limit rights and freedoms because rights and freedoms of citizens are the essence of life in every country. I'm undermining, my country. I want this country, this country to be the homeland of all citizens. It would be good if individuals themselves did not interpret the recommendations, not to implement them in obligations, that everyone was not considered a small headquarters that could determine the rules of life and death, the movement of people who work for them and who live among them. Just because the virus became a reality doesn't mean the laws became a joke and we don't have to apply them. The pursuit of absolute security cannot be an excuse for abolishing freedom and stopping life. Care for physical health does not give anyone the right to endanger and restrict mental health, mental health, psychophysical health, motivation, hobby, creation, socialization, learning. So I ask the institutions to include good practice in all activities and tolerance towards users, as I feel, I know that this is possible and that good practice exists. Please, I appeal to everyone who makes recommendations, respect them human longing and the need to live without exception. And please, on the Net, look for the testimony of the top artist Andrea Bocelli who overcame the coronary virus and see what he stands for. He stands for the fullness of life and all freedoms of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u84	The following statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad Minister Grlic Radman is here because my debate is actually about him. First of all, I'd like to give you a few rhetorical questions from the Minister. Where did you come from today in the Parliament? Have you been at your post on Zagreb's Zrinjevac lately? Have you installed the Stop Covid-19 application? Is that what the ministry employees did? Have you tested for the coronary virus? Why do I ask you that, Minister? Because according to my information, we have a new focus of infection, which is exactly the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The first case was recorded at the end of last week at the ministry. Today there are newly confirmed infected. All six of them. A lot of people are a measure of self-insulation. I'm wondering if you've been in touch with them? Have you had any tests? Most of these people can't say that, of course, but I know that a lot of the ministry people have been helped in the elections when they were held in BiH, and it's likely that the disease came from there. And were there security leaks first of all? Were these people tested in self-insulation or were they given a measure of self-insulation when they returned, etc. So these are all very, very important questions. And how important that is and how no one is immune and excluded from this, the fact tells you that a federal minister for the BiH martial arts also died today, Mr. Salko Bukarevic. Have you, Minister, by coming to the Parliament, deliberately exposed us to the disease? Or do you think maybe a piece of paper that will sign Krunoslav Capak makes you as immune as all of us? But all for the most part, it's HDZ's way of working and I'm not surprised that you already have signed such a document by Mr. Krunoslav Kapak because, I say, when it comes to power, HDZ is ready for anything. And the paper you sign doesn't know who, and neither does the Prime Minister and Mr. Charles Michel, or whoever, will save anyone from the infection. How can we invite others to be responsible, how can we from behind me invite people to follow measures, to wear masks, to disinfect, to hold a gap, to be responsible, if those who should not set an example in doing so. That's why Minister, I'd like to answer these questions because it's about health and work and this House, and all the people you may have been in contact with, and the entire foreign ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u94	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u95	Ma'am. Oreshkovic, this is your esteemed Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. To this statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I was encouraged by Mr. Hrelja and Mr. Hajduković, and about the work of the National Staff and the conduct of the Croatian Parliament and the conduct of the Croatian Government. I would like to say that we in the HDZ in the ruling majority and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of the crisis with the coronary virus epidemic have been thinking about how and how as a state, effectively and without spot, to counter the spread of this epidemic. And we've been thinking very much about how the government functions, the government's functioning, the Parliament's functioning, and we've defined ourselves as the ruling majority, with the possibilities provided by Article. The 16th Croatian Constitution, which states that individual rights and freedoms can be limited by law to protect the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which in any case was the fundamental need of state action in the crisis of the coronary virus epidemic. And then we thought about possible activation of art. 17th Croatian Constitution where, then, as HS and HS representatives, we would make all decisions that would be made in HS to contain the epidemic by a two-thirds majority. Between the elections, which means almost declaring the state of emergency offered. 17. and the possibilities provided by the Croatian Constitution through the implementation of Article 17. 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where individual rights and freedoms can be restricted for health protection, we have defined ourselves as an art. 16. And I am the foundation of the article. 16 laws have been adopted, such as the Law on the Protection of the public against infection and the Civil Protection System Act, ways have been established, deadlines have been established, procedures have been laid down as well as how state administrations, ministries and other similar bodies act in order to prevent the spread of the infection into the Republic of Croatia. And in this way, the competent Minister of Health, the Civil Protection Headquarters, and then the HZJZ, the County Public Health Office, have been given certain responsibilities under which the Civil Protection Staff has been acting so far. And all of how that amendment to the Law on the Protection of the public against the infectious diseases that we have changed has allowed the Civil Protection Staff to do so in accordance with the Minister of Health and the HZZ with the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And since then, to this day, everything the Civil Protection Staff has done, and does according to the law and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the screening and calling of the Staff to some kind of para-constitutional and para-state body is a completely missed thesis that does not stand, on the one hand. On the other hand, I propose to the opposition MPs that, in addition to these verbal squadrons, they propose HS to the Civil Protection Staff how and how the HS should make its decision under Article. 17. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia and all the individual measures that the headquarters brings here at HS parliamentary representatives determined the two-thirds majority. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS are clear, and also on the basis of the Constitution, the powers and rights of each representative are clear, not to say club representatives, so all that we just heard from Mr. Hajdukovic and Mr. Hrelje, let them see the proposal of the act delivered here for discussion, we will be very happy to discuss it, or it would be good to then specifically tell us what this HS should bring in order to prevent the spread of the epidemic in Croatia. I think the Civil Protection Centre in Croatia is very well implementing these measures and results that are recorded in Croatia when it comes to the spread of the coronary virus extremely well. And I'm also interested, what is it that has been adopted in Croatia at this time by the Civil Protection Staff, which is essentially affecting the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, other than hygiene, mandatory wearing masks and social or physical distances? I do not see what are the measures that significantly restricts the rights of Croatian citizens, so I would like to make some of this concrete in the light of a particular bill which we will gladly discuss in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2041	I thank the cameramen, the photographers. Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work and as we announced yesterday the first item today is: - The proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice president and members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament Today would be held if it were interested and voted on by the president, vice president and members, and the other committees would then vote on Friday. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs pursuant to Articles 105, 161 and 273. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Before I give my word to the presidents of the Committee on Elections, Appointment and Administrative Affairs, Nadi Murganic, to explain the motion for a decision, I saw MP Vidovic Kristo appear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2042	Thank you, Mr. President. In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, we're looking for a 15-minute break to consult about last night's scandalous statement by the vice president of this anti-constitutional and commercial government, where he said if my arrival in Knin's gesture I have a stomach for every kind of gesture. So we remind you that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2043	Dear MPs, I beg you to stop. So there is no business opportunity for me to give you a break on this basis because the break is only required for the agenda point and a possible comment on the agenda point. So, you can talk about this, you can talk about this in a free speech that's going to be at 13 o'clock, so we're going to move on with this agenda point. I ask the chairman of the board, the esteemed Nada Murganic, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2044	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. MPs and MPs, respected prime minister and members of the government, welcome. The Committee's proposal on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament was set at the 2nd session held on 28 July 2020. The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament elects: for President Franco Vidović, for Vice President Angelko Strick, for members Ante Bačić, Darko Klasic, Josip Djakić, Mladen Karlić, Ante Deur, Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Rajko Ostojić, Vinko Grgić, Mako Kuzmanić, Željko Sacic. This decision will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2045	I thank the chairman of the committee, the respected Nadia Murganic. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate because there are no interested, so I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, we have made a decision as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and then I would ask during today or tomorrow that the committee hold its session so that we can join in the afternoon tomorrow to discuss the point where this committee is in charge. We are now going to debate, I will propose that we unite the discussion on two points, these are: - Report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2020 and - Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on an extraordinary meeting of the European Council held from 17 to 21 July 2020. Any objections to the proposal to conduct a united debate? If there's no thanks, then let's move on to the debate. The applicant is the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Articles 6 and 11 on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European affairs. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on European Affairs. I welcome Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, also Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman and EU Minister of Regional Development and Funds Natasa Tramišak. I would now like the President of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2052	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, it is my pleasure that today we have an opportunity on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament to have two important reports. First on the European Council held a few days ago and a report on the six-month Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. At first I can say that the most important thing is that we have chosen a large, significant financial support package from both the multiannual financial framework and the next generation's recovery plan or the EU instrument. Our report on the extraordinary session of this European Council should be put in context, the context of a process that has been going on for several years, negotiations that took place since May 2018 when the first proposal of the European Commission came out on a new multiannual financial framework discussed in the last few semesters. It should also be put in the context of the efforts of EU members and its institutions to find a stronger response to the crisis and to the socioeconomic consequences resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic and to strengthen the resilience of Member States. I must say that never before has the Government referred to the Croatian Parliament any report that has had such a great financial weight and such a far-reaching meaning for our economic development, for our social cohesion, for Croatia's progress, and of course the entire European project, or the EU. It's a billion and 824 billion euros. Of that amount, more than 22 billion euros will be available to Croatia, which is 165 billion kuna in the next 4 years, or the next 7 years. This is twice as much as we had available in the multiannual financial framework, which is behind us in 2014-2020 and represents one of the largest amounts per capita and aid intensity that Member States have discussed during these negotiations. It is an amount which ensures that for each euro invested, we get more than 4.5 euros from the EU budget, so 1:4.5. The report shows the course of one of the longest meetings in the history of the EU, I think of meetings of the European Council, the fact that we started on Friday 17 at 10:00 in the morning, and ended at 5:30 p.m. on its complexity, weight, extraordinaryness for all members, bearing in mind the expectations of our public, our citizens, our economy, the financial markets of other parts of the world that have carefully observed that the Union will give a unique response to the unprecedented crisis. Let us remember that this was our first physical meeting after the February meeting this year, and then because of the Covid-19 pandemic, there were no more physical meetings which we, as the former EU Presidency, know very well and can say unfortunately know. We have already mostly presented to the public the details, amount and structure of the funds that Croatia has received. But let me repeat the most important, adopted financial package is based on two strategically designed and connected pillars. The first is the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027 and the second is the recovery plan titled ‘EU for the next generations’. This approach should ensure funding through the Union’s regular budget, including traditional policies such as cohesion policy, agricultural policy and ensure economic recovery from the consequences of the COvid-19 pandemic, strengthen resilience, generate growth and encourage investment, with the achievement of climate objectives and digitalisation objectives. This will include the use of additional funds that the Union would obtain on the financial markets under very favourable conditions. The adopted multiannual financial framework for 20121-2027 amounts to a thousand and 74 billion euros, so the compromise remained at a thousand and 74 billion euros, while the EU's funding for the next generations is 150 billion euros, of which 390 billion grants and 360 billion euros for loans. ‘EU for the next generation’ is structured in three pillars. First aid to Member States for investment and reform, above all through the so-called recovery and resistance mechanism. The pillar consists of assistance for cohesion recovery, support for green transition to a climatic neutron economy through a strengthened mechanism for a fair transition and a strengthened European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The second pillar focuses on the launch of the Union's economy by encouraging private investment through a strengthened "Invest EU" instrument, which includes measures to boost strategic investment. The third pillar responds to lessons learned from the crisis and to meet European strategic challenges through a strengthened civil protection mechanism and a strengthened Horizon Europe programme that would include financing vital research on health, resilience and green and digital transition. For the recovery and resilience mechanism, 672.5 billion euros were secured from which 312, and the loan of 360 from the total amount of grants, 70% must be granted to Member States in time from the beginning of 2021, and by the end of 2022, the remaining 30% will be approved by the end of 2023. The maximum amount of loans for each of the Member States will normally not be of 6.8% of its gross national income. What was our approach? So, first of all, we wanted an agreement because we felt that the political responsibility of the Union's leader is too important at the moment to delay what is important for clear planning and economic recovery in the coming years. We have also insisted that the other members of the Union are subject to the specificities of Croatia. And just these specificities that we well argued are reflected in this package that we brought to Croatia a few days ago. The main argument is of course that Croatia is the only member of the Union that has so far had only one seven-year financial perspective and we have in this respect achieved several goals that we have worked on for months. First let's keep the national co-financing rate of rural development at 15%, not 25% as originally proposed, you remember, we've already talked about it here and we've done it. We've also advocated keeping the rules on automatic recalling 3rd-year cohesion funds. After their delivery, so-called. Rule M+3, the initial idea was to be M+2, to us at this stage still fit M+3 and we did it. The above rule allows our users a long three-year period for the use of funds, thereby reducing the risk of losing and returning these funds to the European cash register. We did not, of course, support the recovery plan its height and ratio of grants and loans. In particular, we insisted that the economic recovery plan be linked to the European Semester since the European semester is the framework of our economic policy, through it are national reform programmes, the convergence programme, everything we do in the context of our EU membership. What did we get additionally and specifically? So, through the seven-year budget, we have EUR 12.7 billion, EUR 3 envelopes of EUR 7.5 billion for cohesion, 2.5 billion for direct payments in agriculture, 2 billion for rural development. This should be accompanied by funding from different EU instruments, fisheries 270 million EUR, internal security and migration of EUR 250 million, there are also resources for fair green transition, research, health, education, transport and digital infrastructure. We are particularly pleased that, on top of all this, we have also chosen an additional national envelope totaling EUR 500 million, so EUR 500 million based solely on negotiations that took place on top of what we have generally asked for how to make the architecture of VFO and the EU the next generation looks. Of these, EUR 400 million for cohesion, for less developed regions, therefore there is one paragraph in these conclusions that applies only to the Republic of Croatia, not to any other EU member. We had already fought 300 in February before that last meeting, and now we've increased that by 100 more and we've got another 100 million euros, so all in all 400, it's about one Peljeski bridge, just to figure out what the key to these funds and negotiations was. The result of these intense negotiations and arguments is that we have shown how much RH Covid-19 has affected both tourism and other economic branches and areas, and therefore we have been able to explain the needs that are beyond what the Republic of Croatia would possibly belong to. One of the arguments was also a terrible earthquake in Zagreb as the economic centre of the Republic of Croatia which suffered great damage on March 22nd to what we spoke yesterday. We have also highlighted our specific economic and demographic situation in 8 Croatian counties. These are the counties that will practically make up Pannonian Croatia, Vukovar-Srijemska, Osijek-Baranja, Brod-Posavina, Požega-slavonska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Virovitski-Podravska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovačka County, so we have also insisted and received EUR 100 million in support of rural development due to the specific structural challenges in the agricultural sector, and here we have argued these funds by reducing or our desire to reduce negative demographic trends and to retain young people in rural areas and in the agricultural sector. So within the EU, the next generation on top of this, the Republic of Croatia can count on EUR 9.4 billion. Of which, for the recovery and resilience mechanism which is the main part of this is 8.3 billion, of which EUR 5.9 billion is non-refundable, loans of EUR 2.3 billion. When we talk about these loans, it is important to understand that the interest rate will be the best you can have on the globe because it is the fruit of the EU's first-rate credit rating and it is about payments that will start around 2026 and continue until 2058. When we talk about the recovery mechanism, it is very important to stress that there is no national co-financing here, there is no 15%, so another detail that is very important in this whole new instrument. On top of that, we have also managed to secure an advance, an advance of 10% of the grants from the recovery mechanism and the resilience that will be paid in 2021, this specifically means hundreds of millions of euros during 2021. This is about an amount that could reach nearly EUR 600 million somewhere, which is going to relieve the state budget, which is important because of our macroeconomic stability, especially in light of our recent entry into the European Course Mechanism 2 through which we are being led to the accession of Europe, I believe until the end of the term of office of this HS and this Croatian government. For the use of these funds, what is now important in the operationalisation, we, like all other members, will need to develop a national recovery plan, so we have the European Semester, we have specific recommendations for each of the Member States, we have a national reform programme, we will also have a national recovery plan that is also listed in the final programme of the government that we presented last week. The aim is to strengthen the potential for growth in the economy, create new jobs, and strengthen economic and social resilience, including the health sector. In addition, national plans must be in line with the objectives of the EU's digital and green transition. The main role in approving national recovery plans will be played by the Commission and the Council within the prescribed deadlines. The positive assessment of the payment of funds will be linked to meeting the relevant criteria and objectives set out in this plan. We're going to make this plan by the end of this year, and of course, we're going to introduce it here at HS because it's important for the absorption of these funds. We'll make a decision tomorrow at the government on a new special coordination that will deal with this alone and I will personally chair that body. So we have maximum access to this topic. How were the negotiations, just to have a little feeling, although the report sought to elaborate what was actually going on? So there were several Member States we call thrifty. These 5, which, by the way, especially after the UK leaves, want to cut their deposits in the common budget and they, we could say, were the biggest brakers to reach an agreement. There were many members, such as Croatia, so-called the countries of cohesion or the net beneficiary of the budget they wanted, of course, that the VFO creates a strong additional instrument in such a crisis without precedent. The two largest and most influential members had access to full understanding of the moment and responsibility in a way that helped to reach the goal and, literally, take the greatest burden on their backs. It is very important that we understand this moment of this European Council. They didn't have a dilemma. They understand their role and understand the importance of responding, a strong response to crises at a time like this. There was also an element of the rule of law, not the rule of law in that classical sense as it stands in basic contracts, but the rule of law in the context of withdrawing funds from the EU budget, as its kind of links, and since 2018 there has been a regulation that will thoroughly regulate it. Croatia supported the rule of law principle as an element to be part of this package without any reserves. There were also management issues, with the next generation instrument where we also found a solution in a way to avoid any national blocking of a member's national recovery programme by another member. That wouldn't be good. The task of correcting verifications, questionings, verifications must be done by the EU Commission with its services and with its administrative capacities that can be entered into the details of each of these instruments. We have advocated that leaders be at the height of responsibility. We did not want to finish another EU council without agreement. Especially the first physically after 5 months of not meeting, and this message has been strongly addressed and we have affected this solution with 2 aspects, that we are satisfied with the global aspect of both the VFO and the economic recovery plan, and that we can demonstrate our satisfaction that we have secured Croatia, Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy, all of us in the next 4 and 7 years, respectively, a strong lever of economic development. And that's the message I've been saying in the last few months that I've seen that some here haven't understood from these previous discussions on modern sovereignty. This is it. You laughing, this is it. A strong state that protects its national interests, which potentiates its strength to the well-being of its citizens, its economy, by capitalising its international position, and in particular by EU membership. That's the point. The taste of this policy, and most importantly, that's what Croatian citizens saw, they understand and recognize, better than those who missed these topics 30 years ago. As for this second part of the 6-month chairmanship, I will ask Mr. Grlic Radman's Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to report on this, I will only say that in these circumstances we have done everything we can, and that I am personally sorry that for not maintaining a series of meetings these past six months since January and by the end of June we have in one unique way, which happens every 15 years, brought our fellow citizens closer to what is today the EU. If we had that visibility, it would have been very good, but here, we'll wait for some other moments. However, I can say that I am satisfied and most importantly, our colleagues are with what we are in these circumstances unprecedented in 70 years of the Union, no one has had such a situation, particularly pleased with how Croatia has met and responded to this challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2053	I now ask the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Gordan Grlic Radman, to address MPs and MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2054	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is my great pleasure, honor and pride to be here today in front of you in the first days of the convocation of the Croatian Parliament and to present the Report on the first Presidency of the Republic of Croatia to the EU Council. ... is the report which gives an overview of the preparation of the current Presidency and of the most important achievements of the EU Council Presidency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government accepted the report at a session held on 24.7.2020. For Croatia, the Presidency of the EU Council was the crown of its European path. It is a historic moment from the day of recognition of the Republic of Croatia, the Homeland War and the achievement of all foreign policy interests. The memory of accession negotiations and EU accession are still fresh, and we have already had the opportunity to lead the council at the time of the biggest challenges for the EU so far. Our presidency is first, first in the new institutional cycle after last year's European Parliament elections, with new leaders of European institutions, with new priorities of the 2019 strategic framework. - 2024. It came to the conclusion of the negotiations on the new seven-year European budget for the 2021 period, which, by '27, was reported by the Prime Minister and the time of uncertainty about the United Kingdom's exit from the EU. It was a framework in which we prepared and began the presidency. Preparations for the Presidency were priorities of the Government's 2016 programme. – 20th, and the Government made a decision in 2018 setting out the presidency of the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia, a particular activity. Preparations started in 2017 and lasted until 2019. They included the preparation of the Tria Romania, Finland, Croatia programme. The Croatian Presidency Programme adopted in December 2019, structured different, according to various Council information and developed around 4 top priorities, Europe that is developing, Europe that connects, Europe that protects and influences Europe. 4 separate thematic conferences were held before the start of the presidency, as a result of the shortness of time, I can also talk about this later on. This Decision shall enter into force on The government has made a decision on the establishment of a structure for preparing and implementing the Presidency, which has been given the central role of the Governing Council. During the Presidency, the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council began its visit to the College of Commissioners of the European Commission, and on 14 January, the Prime Minister presented the priorities and agenda for the European Parliament's Presidency. This was done by all ministers and state secretaries to their respective and sectoral committees of parliament. During January and February, formal and informal council meetings at ministerial level and all other working technical meetings were held until early March. The Croatian Presidency, however, faced two unpredictable crises very quickly. First, it was caused by significant migration pressure and an increase in the number of illegal crossings between Greece and Turkey. Extraordinary meetings, the Foreign Affairs Council, were organised on 6 March, for the first time in the history of the EU that outside Brussels and the Justice and Home Affairs Council in the form of the Minister of the Interior, and then the Prime Minister, together with the President of the European Council, visited the President of the European Commission on 3 March and visited the President of the European Parliament on a visit to the Greek-Turkish land border. In this way, the Presidency of the European institution jointly supported Greece's efforts to protect its EU external borders in preventing illegal migration. Another crisis, as we all know and feel, has been caused by the emergence and rapid spread of the coronal virus into the EU. An unpredictable situation, which Croatia successfully adapted to during the Homeland War. The situation became particularly worrying at the end of February, in early March when in some EU Member States the number of patients and deceased by Covid 19 was extremely and sharply increased. In these two, I also have to name the third crisis, we became the first presidency, whose capital city Zagreb was hit by a 5.5 earthquake on the Richter scale. Our chairmanship is actually the first time in history that it is the digital presidency, and the first digital trilogue between the European Commission Presidency and the European Parliament was held during the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council on Smart TEN-T. As a result of the crisis since March, we have gradually cancelled informal meetings that did not take place physically in Croatia until the end of the Croatian Presidency. Despite the crises and all the challenges they brought, we remained focused on all the presidency tasks and successfully led them to the end. Achievements, among our main achievements, are a series of activities in response to the Covid 19 pandemic. The main task became co-ordination of the joint response to the crisis. An integrated political response to the crisis, investment initiatives in response to the coronary virus, the Shure instrument, has been activated. We have managed to bring in other items related to the Kovid, and we have participated in what is very important and what I am very proud of it is the repatriation of not only Croatian citizens but also of the Member States and even of third countries through joint consular efforts co-ordinated by the Presidency with the European External Action Service. About 630,000 citizens of the Russian Union must have been returned to their homes during the crisis. Brexit, on Brexit's negotiations on future relations, was briefly reported by the Prime Minister. The Western Balkans enlargement policy, despite the challenges the Union has faced, has managed to bring back and keep the issue of enlargement in focus and re-affirm a credible and effective enlargement policy. We have become satisfied with the fact that with the northern one, the decision to open accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. It is a great achievement of the Croatian Presidency which has managed to ensure agreement in the council and that is our legacy. The most important political event was, of course, a virtual Zagreb summit at the top of EU member states, Southeast European countries and, of course, the Zagreb Declaration was adopted, and during our presidency, the 8th chapter of the competition with Montenegro opened, so that our contribution too. Economic and financial dialogue with the Western Balkans and Turkey was held in May, and joint conclusions were adopted. The Council also adopted conclusions on improving co-operation on the partners of the Western Balkans, as well as on the initiative of the Prime Minister as well as on a video conference on the Eastern Partnership as well as on the Prime Minister's initiative of course on the Western Balkans. Following our duties with the European Council in January, we started working to adopt the position of the Council on negotiations with the European Commission and the European Parliament on the mandate of the organisation and structure of the conference on the future of Europe. We have conducted comprehensive discussions on a number of European Green Plan formations and councils as a key strategy for environmental protection, economic growth of the EU, we have made progress on climate, the Council has adopted a long-term EU strategy on emissions to submit the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Transport ministers adopted the Opatija Declaration, which provides guidelines for the development of maritime policy by 2030. We adopted 3 sets of conclusions on employment and social issues, including improving skills and gaining new skills, and demographic challenges etc. In foreign policy, respected MPs and respected representatives were held in June, so what I said, a meeting at the EU summit and a professional partnership. Earlier, the EU Council adopted conclusions on its partnership policy after 2020. The council also adopted a decision to launch a military crisis management operation in the Mediterranean, conclusions in the area of development cooperation were adopted, and the Team Europe package, with the United States, continued cooperation on a series of security issues on the multiannual financial framework and recovery plan was notified by the Prime Minister. Dear MPs, respected MPs, given the exceptional circumstances of our precedent, we can say or say, we have achieved excellent results that confirm positive assessments of our colleagues, if we were not visible in the Republic of Croatia, we have been out there, we have strengthened statehood and globally, we have achieved global visibility in the world, we have changed the way we work and adapted to new circumstances by setting standards and for others who come behind us. At the same time, we can all be together. proud of a job well done. [[Intruder: Thank you Ministers]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2055	Thank you. So we move to replicas, the Prime Minister has 27, and the minister has 3. There's a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2056	Your Honored Prime Minister, the question is very simple, you did not speak of it in your report, and you may later even as a motionary, as a rapporteur, and take time for a pay phone if you have little time, I think there will be little time. It's clear to all of us where this loan money comes from, and I agree with you that it's the most favourable loan on the globe. However, when we talk about this part of the grant, where does this money come from, and how does the EU think of moving that money? Is it through some pan European tax, is it through another model? That's what I'm interested in, what's the interest of the Croatian public, and will the Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy accidentally have some new giving to get in the way of that money? Here's a simple question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2057	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2058	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic, you're the one who doesn't exactly believe in this concept of modern sovereignty, unlike you, we deliver what he means. As far as these funds are concerned, so VFO goes in the classic way that it is, we know what the EU's income is, how it's done. As far as this EU instrument is concerned, the next generation, as it is imagined, is its essence. To help Member States in an unprecedented situation, when all GDP falls, everyone, there is no one who is not touched by this crisis, some funding needs to be found. The way it came up is that in markets, they exist, they have money, they go with a loan that will take over the EU at the best possible credit rating, practically money that costs almost nothing and will be paid in the next 30 g. Together. [[Intruder: Thank you]] How it will be about income will be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2059	Thank you. Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2060	Dear President of the Assembly, I request a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the report of the Prime Minister. So I asked you Mr. President of the Croatian Government nicely without any comment on sovereignty, quasi sovereignty, your quasi sovereignty or anything else. In your report, you took the right to call me sovereign again and to call yourself sovereign. So the question was simple, you didn't give me an answer because you didn't know. So you didn't give me an answer to a simple question. Where will the EU get that money from? So, the simplest question, and the Croatian public must know, where will the EU, Prime Minister, draw money from? And as for that comment you made through the report when you came to me and when you told them I was laughing, I don't know how you saw me laughing under the mask because I'm wearing it neatly, wearing a mask and about how Croatian citizens recognized you as a true sovereign, they recognized you in a way that they gave you 80,000 votes less than last time and another 64,000 less than in the Karamark era, so 140,000 votes less you got. That you're... Rewarded because your ideological partner SDP failed, that's a different story, but you've received 144,000 fewer votes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't get cocky with sovereignty because you're not a sovereign. And when we talk about the EU, I'm not saying that everything that comes from the EU is bad and wrong. However, I would like you to discuss critically the EU and some things within the EU. And when you ask a nice decent question that you don't have an answer to, then you don't have to go down, do a doctor, just answer or say I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2061	Stanka's gonna be approved, is anyone else picking up for a break? Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2062	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Zekanovic, so I'm sorry that you don't know, so you don't know that the Republic of Croatia is already in plus 26 billion kuna compared to what we paid and what we got. [[Employer: Kolega Pavić, colleague Pavić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2063	Buddy, you have to explain why you're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2064	So we're looking for a break on this point just because we think this program is good. We also have a situation to consult further. The Republic of Croatia has received such a programme, i.e. through a multi-annual financial framework. It is very clear from where the funds come from, it is very clear that the European Commission, which has a triple AAA credit rating, will be credited to the debt of 2028-2058, that the more developed economies have taken over to pay back some of the debts as the countries of the net payer, and it is also known that the cohesion funds 70% of those funds are being paid back to the countries of the net payers. So it is very clear who will return it, there will be a new economic activity, there will be a situation that right now we are 26 billion kuna in plus, Croatian citizens will continue to be in plus as a country net payer, and the price of this borrowing will be taken over by net creditors, the European Commission, in part and the rest, but these 22 billion euros will be positive. So it's very clear, and I'm asking for a break on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2065	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2066	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Pavić, or a respected colleague, has injured the Rules of Procedure because he himself does not know why he asked for a break. I think it's embarrassing that one former minister doesn't know in two minutes or explain why he's looking for a club break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2067	Your colleagues are being warned because you have misused the Rules of Procedure you have no right to do so and your colleague Pavić has explained as well as his colleague Zekanovic, and this is a common practice to use these two minutes when the club asks him to state his reasons for doing so, so I ask you not to do such injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else picking up for a break? Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2068	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club in the context of further presentations by Mr. Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2069	Is anyone else picking up for a break? We'll continue at 10:26 p.m. MEETING AT 10:16 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.27 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2071	In the end, you said to the Prime Minister that this is a new sovereignty and that we should not be cynical about these expressions, but I believe that sovereignty is that the Croatian peasant, Croatian fisherman, Croatian entrepreneur and the general Croatian people are equal within the EU. If Hungary could ban the sale of agricultural land, then why is Croatia not a protection? Which is why we have not declared an exclusive economic belt, which is our right, full application of the exclusive economic belt. These are questions that interest our citizens to be equal to our fisherman and our peasant, of course, our entrepreneur. Why do we not have a moratorium on loans and interest if there is a moratorium on loans and interest in Slovenia, means Croatian people to be sovereign must be equal with Hungarian, Italian or any other people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2072	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2073	Thank you very much, Representative Bulj, it seems to me that there will be another EUR 270 million for the fishermen in this package we presented today. Who else would give them away? Is there anyone else that will give 270 million euros for Croatian fisheries other than Croatian EU membership? If you find an answer to that question to me, who is that other person who will, then I'll understand you, but you won't find him because there's no one else to give. So what's important is that you understand your colleague who's not here right now after the break, I guess he's still consulting. To understand that we have been in the EU for the last 30 years since President Tudjman's speech here, for this speaker, has been going on for 30 years. The fact that you, and especially the gentleman, didn't take part in it, you didn't understand, you didn't follow the stages, you didn't contribute, that's your problem. If you'd played that game, you'd have thought differently now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2074	Here you go, Comrade Bull. What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2075	I am looking for a break and the name of the club MOST of 10 minutes where Prime Minister Plenkovic did not respond to the inquiry, and the MOST Club took a good part in proposing proposals that are on the concept of new sovereignty, on the concept of declaring an exclusive economic belt, but you do not want it because of good relations with Tajani, otherwise fascists who own our Dalmatia and Istria. You didn't protect our fishermen. Of course, when President Tudjman said that and after the Homeland War, that I participated in the Homeland War and as other defenders no matter what political option we were defending the Republic of Croatia, and thank God we defended it, but I repeat one more question to you. Which is why you did not have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, that the Croatian fisherman should at least be equal with the Italian fisherman in the Republic. Not that Italian fleets do what Italian fishermen want at our sea. Also, you did not protect our agricultural land because if you had protected it, if you had protected the agriculture then you would not have 2/3 of Croatia empty, and this small agriculture when you call for self-sufficiency and sovereignty and what little our crew farmers ultimately have to throw and sample. 3 billion EUR we import food products. You've never been inciting again, we've never produced less. Croatia is not a self-sufficient state to the prime minister. Prime Minister, Croatia 6% of the Croatian emigrants you didn't want to vote on electronically or by letter, they moved out because of bad policies, because of such under the lights of false representation that everything blooms in the Republic of Croatia. 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty to the Prime Minister, my Cetin Province, Zagora, Slavonia is literally empty. At least put us in an equal position with the Hungarians to ban the sale of agricultural land and that our entrepreneurs have the right to Moratorium on loans and interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2076	Thank you, fellow Bull. He approves of a break. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, can we, do you agree to finish the replicas and then give it a break? No, well, then we move on at 10.43. It's 10:00.34. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:46 A.M.]] Please take your seats. It is now MP Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2078	I thank the President of the Parliament. In your interview with the Financial Times on 30.12.2019, you said that the issue of demographics will be crucial during the presidency and that the EU must face an existential problem of the loss of population affecting several member states. As one of these countries is interested in the Republic of Croatia despite the pandemic, the earthquake and everything that was not planned, it is also envisaged that no one could have predicted what was done to bring this issue to date at EU level, and I am naturally interested in it mainly because of Slavonia and Baranja where I come from. You stated that in this arrangement certain funds are provided for rural development, but we are leaving also highly educated young people, what was done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2079	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2080	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Vucimilovic. Last year, as you remember not only from this interview for FT at the end of last year, before the European Council in June 2019, we managed to put it into a document called the "EU Strategic Agenda on Demographic Revitalisation" on our initiative, with the support of a series of members, particularly Central and Eastern Europe, who suffer from the same problem. Not only that, we last year, will you remember at this time when the Ursule von der Leyen Commission was formed that for the first time in the history of the Commission one member, in this particular case, our Vice-President of the European Commission Dubravka Shuica, has in his portfolio and demographic issues. The funds that we have received through both VFO and through the "EU next generation" economic recovery programme will also be used to address the existential key fundamental issue and therefore we are going to the central state office to cover this topic horizontally both in rural areas, in education and in young families.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2081	Thank you. A colleague of Ante Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2082	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister with colleagues and ministers. First congratulations on the presidency, which is the first digital presidency I think has passed successfully. On the other hand, I am interested in the issue of EU enlargement for the sake of the EU's challenge and for Brexit was not so current and priority for the EU, but we brought it back to this chair at the table of opening pre-accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia, opening a special chapter with Montenegro, opening the way for BiH was kind of a way and normally... and leaving something behind this presidency. For you, in general for the Republic of Croatia, how important this is and for the sake of stability and for the sake of our neighbourhood, not only for the future of the EU but for our sole purpose, for the Republic of Croatia, how important it is for us to open this chapter, these things for stability in Southeast Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2083	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2084	Thank you very much. Representative Bacic, as far as the EU enlargement topic is concerned, we have indeed managed to position it in spite of everything, despite many members who have not been so hot on the subject. We, after the formation of the new commission and the start of our presidency, turned the trends of October 2019, were agreed by several members who then blocked the decision to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, not only did we make a decision on opening but we succeeded in agreeing with the European Commission to amend the methodology of enlargement negotiations, hold a meeting at the summit in Zagreb, unfortunately in the form of a video conference, sending key messages, and for us it was a particularly important message to BiH and the issue of equality of Croats as a constituent people, and on this trail we will continue our activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2085	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you have already touched on this, but I would like to hear a little more clarification on the conditionality and use of the European budget that is related to respect for the rule of law. In fact, some critics of our presidency said that, above all, from the EU, we were thunderously quiet when it comes to skating some of our neighbours, EU member states towards authoritarianism and violation of the rule of law. So I'm interested in what you said, and you said it wasn't good for certain members to condition payments or use funds, but I'm curious to know what the government's position is, are we against or are we in favour? This year, the European Commission will publish its first report on the rule of law of EU Member States, what does the Government expect from that report, are you afraid that we will go badly and are you against it because Croatia has not been suspended by payment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2087	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2088	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you say the last sentence. I'm sorry if Gordane can just... Last sentence only. [[Adversity President: Yes, of course not.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2089	Are you afraid that Croatia will be suspended if the rule of law is a condition for the use of funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2091	Okay. So, first of all, I made it very clear in the opening act that we were in favour of the principle of rule of law, related to this particular case for the use of funds from the European budget, the position is for. And I said that this debate that was now being held is not the same as that debate about art. 7th, so the debate on Art. The 7th is conducted on the basis of some other grounds. There are two countries on respect for the fundamental principles of rule of law, one has been initiated on the basis of the Commission's initiative, against the other on the basis of the European Parliament's initiative, we know which countries they are. This quote that you mentioned is some kind of quote media or I don't know whose, politically, it's just not true. We have done the dialogue that we should on this subject very well and very well. As for the report on the rule of law, the Government has already submitted it to the European Commission, the government has accepted it, it is on the government's website, you can look at it, it's whole and quality, we're not afraid of anything because we're not hiding anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2092	Thank you. Let's move on, MP Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2093	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I only have two questions. Since the final agreement on a new multiannual financial framework in 2021-2027 is the result of a compromise with the so-called Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden, which is the government's position on reducing the originally envisaged funds for individual programmes such as Horizon 2020 and the EU Investment and policies such as health, defence and migration. And next, how will the new allocation of funds affect Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2094	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2095	It is true that certain proposals have been reduced in compromises. What was Croatia's goal? So you have, say, two sets that matter to you. One is a gathering called a national envelope. What is very clearly defined by this agreement and later with the European Parliament is that it goes exclusively for your country. That's my priority, number one. So my goal was to get as much resources as possible for the national envelope. If there's a compromise to be done somewhere, then it's easier for me to do it on those programs that apply to everything. So the absorption of these funds depends on the activities of our actors in Croatia where they compete with everyone else to withdraw funds from one of these programs you're talking about. So we've secured the base, and this is the upgrade. The longer we stay in the Union, the more the base will be absorbed, and the more upgrade we'll have. Things are pretty simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2096	Thank you. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2097	Dear Prime Minister, we have read out the contracts we signed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, my question, two questions are the following. The first question is whether these money we successfully asked will go on the same terms in terms of interest through the Croatian Bank and reconstruction and development towards our Croatian entrepreneurs. And question number two, are these contracts won at a start of five years, which is a kind of moratorium, will you, as a new economic sovereign, introduce a moratorium measure on loans and interest by model and by example as introduced by our neighbouring Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2098	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2099	Your Honor, I see that you are giving a replica to a report that has nothing to do with this subject. This is your agenda tomorrow, so ask Vice President Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2100	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2101	Thank you, Mr. President. The President-in-Office of the Government, with your support and support from the resolution ministers, was to be held in Zagreb in May this year, a conference of the European Forum for Persons with Disabilities, but because of the Covida-19 pandemic, it was not held, but a seminar was held, a video seminar on the issue of the establishment of disability and the Istanbul Convention, more concrete protection and the fight against violence against women and girls with disabilities at which the Republic of the European Forum for Persons with Disabilities and you were personally expressed, expressed great gratitude and support for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Here, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2102	Thank you, thank you. Let's move on now, dear colleague Bartulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2103	I thank Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, for listening carefully to the Presidency report and the meeting held in Brussels, it is a good thing that an agreement has been reached, but you have said with the right that this situation is unprecedented, which is indeed true, but we do know and it is generally known that much of the world is in this situation because of the irresponsible behaviour of communist China since the very beginning of this pandemic. And today, they're preventing foreign scientists from studying the causes and circumstances of how this virus itself came to be. Why didn't you give at least one word of criticism to that country during the presidency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2104	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2105	Thank you very much, Mr. Bartulica, for the research and communication of how the virus has formed, which is why it is expanded, these conversations are being conducted, they are necessarily always on the phenomenal level. We talked to China and expressed our compassion for the consequences of the pandemic that they had now, unfortunately, worldwide, but we also achieved some cooperation that was very important. You know, we've had this topic that's now sticking to the space of one article on Article 16, Article 17. The constitution and activities of the civil protection headquarters that we have absorbed here in the assembly and others around equipment, protective equipment. If it hadn't been for my conversation with Prime Minister Lee, we would have had protective equipment in hospitals and in all the other systems, and we got it. Take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2106	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister in the Croatian public, and even in this assembly, there are often grades about Central European countries as if they are countries that oppose EU membership, which are actually countries that testify that they have strengthened their sovereignty since they have been in the EU and they want to continue to be in the EU, in fact, at this last session of the European Council have actively participated in making decisions that are going in the direction if you want and deeper integration, because it is indeed a step that those richer EU countries have now agreed for the first time to, that the European Commission will go to the capital market on behalf of the whole EU, which is of course good for Central Europe for new members, especially Croatia. It seems that this pandemic has changed a lot, and even in the EU that some tensions that are likely to continue to exist, but that today they are in the second plan, the momentum of European integration that will be the role of the Republic of Croatia in this people's period is coming again?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2109	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier. As far as the Central European state's position is concerned, I have been conducting really intense consultations with them these days and over the past months in the end line these last two years. We found ourselves here at, in the same positions with them understanding even better what the fact means to us than they do that we're only 7 years old. Member of the Union and they understand it very well and they support it. And the agreement that has been reached, I will point out once again, was that key, we can say freely, and even Germany's consent to the initiative to bring the Union to the financial markets, to investors and make such a step to raise funds for the Member States. Once that was achieved, cohesion was achieved and therefore I also stressed the responsibility of the two largest founding members was such that they made it clear to everyone who worked against the agreement to reach an agreement and we succeeded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2110	My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2111	Thank you, Mr. President. In early June, an e-conferencing "Better Future for Healthy Ageing" was held as part of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council and under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It was the biggest scientific conference during our presidency. Our history and legacy Dr. Andrija Printar is proof that the Republic of Croatia is of great importance in the World Health Community, what was seen during the Covid-19 pandemic and in fact your role, so during this period of negotiation in July, is an indication that the Republic of Croatia needs to strengthen the public health system and that the Republic of Croatia can be an example, as we are an example in transplant medicine, so we can be an example in the public health system and I think that this should certainly be spoken within the EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2112	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2113	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2114	Okay. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2115	Thank you. Mr. President, in the previous events in the assembly you knew, you showed an enviable knowledge of the ops of Zagreb's 80s drama programme. I'm sure you didn't miss the scene from "The Great Mist" when a maester, or Boris Dvornik, notices that whenever a new state comes to Split, all they care about is getting the radio. What he did to them, it's your government's citizens' cell phones. In March, your government sent amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications where one of the main objectives was mobile control and this law was withdrawn thanks to the pressures of opposition from civil society and coalition partners. In the light of the possible mandatory installation of the "Stop Covid-19" application, the Minister of Health recycled the subject yesterday. I have two questions. Why are your government members so focused on citizens' cell phones? And secondly, one application you installed has already reported that you were in close contact with infected tennis players in Zadar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2116	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2117	Thank you very much, Agent Bauk. In your mandates in this assembly, you have shown so much envious knowledge of these European topics that neither "Velo", or "Little Mist", or "Covic and Po", or "Gruntovci", or "Who sings evil doesn't think" could help you learn something about it. As for the "Stop Covid-19" app, I believe that you are aware that such applications have many countries, that it is voluntary, that it was done in cooperation with what the greatest giants have done, Google and Apple, it is not mandatory, it is voluntary. As far as Zadar is concerned, I, unlike your colleague Ostojić, who self-initiatively, willingly goes into self-insulation for no reason then won after 3 days in the entertainment radio confrontation as the greatest entertainer, listen to experts. And you're like my former basketball judge and Brachanin to me farthest now that my friend Maras is gone at your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2118	Here's what my colleague Ostojić is going to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2119	I'm not going to replicate, Mr. Prime Minister, though... on election funds with the desire to implement this ASAP and AFAP. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we all know the influence of the “Politics around the world” portal, which you respected, Mr. President, and personally gave several interviews. Politically, in several thematic articles, he made a very good comment. He described you as saying "Plenkovic is a favorite of the EPP whose moment is yet to come", and then again says "Plenkovic is destined for a leading post in the EU or the UN". Therefore, I ask you to interpret, explain, consider, in this context, the conclusion of this same policy that I quote in the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council "a strong failure and an additional... evaluates our proposal, quote "Dissaster", disaster. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2120	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2121	I am pleased to see MP Ostojić that despite these unnecessarily necessary aspects of the fact that you are a doctor of arbitrary actions, you follow Politiko, so you can follow a sentence of the article written from their correspondence in Berlin. He's extremely insignificant, incorrect, guilty, inconsistencies with everything we've done, inconsistencies, what if you want key journalists, commentators... The editors of Politics in Brussels think anything of us, what about the Republic of Croatia, what about what we did. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is on the trail of this unnamed quote, which was also held by MP Hajdukovic, and your previous assembly was also sought by your representatives to glean some... European sources to do something about us, and we get thanks, recognition and ultimately results, results. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we had a normal presidency without Covid-19, you and you would have been better acquainted, and in particular President Bauk, which is a membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2122	Thank you. Please welcome fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, my question was the opening of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania as counterpart Bacic took advantage of the issue of enlargement, and I will touch on the important issue of internal migration to the EU. So one of the often used by the most severe Eurosceptics of arguments against the Union is precisely this issue of internal migration, however, the figures crystal clear that the neighbouring countries, let's say just North Macedonia, Albania and Serbia, which are in negotiations or are at the very beginning of the negotiations, are the absolute majority of the population's casts. So, in talks last year only in Skopje, the government told us that 25% of the population of Macedonia and Albanians and Macedonians left Macedonia. So, here's what I wanted to comment on and ask you how do you see this issue of internal migration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2124	I don't think the Prime Minister caught what you were saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2125	Gordan, but the microphones are low, people are tall, and with the mask you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2126	Okay, I don't know what to do. Can we turn the microphones up a little bit? Let's move on then, dear colleague Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2127	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. The EU Presidency should have been an opportunity to present ourselves, our abilities, Europe and the world, and it should have been your personal... we expected your personal touch as well. But apparently, the Croatian presidency programme disappeared in the impasses of red tape and European procedures that would do their part without your influence. In fact, you have praised the 22 billion financial envelope within the multiannual financial framework and recovery plan, but the figure you have shown in no way has been linked to the programme and to four priority areas in the pillar of our Presidency, which is Europe that is developing, a Europe that protects, a Europe that connects and an influential Europe. I ask you what was our goal in each of these areas and what was our achievement? The responsibility of the authorities assumes control, there is no control unless these objectives are pre-communicated in advance and how much at the end of the presidency we cannot draw the line and say what the results are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2128	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2129	Thank you very much. Representative Oreskovic, I am pleased that you are quoting our programme as we presented it on 31 October, the report submitted by the MVEP via the Government is also talking about it. The Europe that protects turned into a fight against covida, a Europe that connects unfortunately at this point was something that was primarily about the fact that we had to show again the reasons why there was a state and de facto national decisions and restrictions to prevent freedom of movement from being saved from covida-19. The developing Europe is what we have for you today on the table so take a look at it. Europe that is influential in the world is the message of our agreement on 21 July at 5:30 in the morning that we are able to find all 27 common answers for which no one else in the world as a group of states has except the EU. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2130	Thank you. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2131	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Are you ready to repeat the elections for civil society representatives in the European Economic and Social Committee, given that one of the three countries declared to be Vice-President of the Commission Ševcevic for violating the election procedure, and for the first time in the history of our representatives of civil society in the EESC have chosen representatives of the state administration not to say direct politics? Up until now, members of the Civil Society Development Council from civil society organisations have chosen their own representatives. This is a precedent, so whoever has been in power so far has never directly elected representatives of civil society in the EESC in this way. This is about the same as for employers to choose union representatives in the EESC. So I ask you, are you ready to repeat these elections to correct this procedure and the application we received from the Commissioner of the Commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2132	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2133	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bencic. You have entered the political world from an NGO that deals with reporting, it is the same association that sends the urbi et orbi correspondence against our candidate for Commissioner to all European Parliament representatives, probably the same association that sent these same letters to Commissioner Ševcevic. I haven't noticed or dealt with it, it seems to me to be the government's Office for Associations, as much as I am coordinating that activity with the representatives of NGOs. I'm not sure there were any irregularities, if there's any objections, I'll deal with it. But I have not noticed that the people who have been chosen, and it seems to me that three of them, even some of whom have been re-elected in any way, have been questioned or may not be professional, or that they do not represent those groups of civil society that have something to say in a body like the EESC, that is the point. And secondly, it's all clear to me where it comes from and why.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2134	Thank you. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2135	The report several times mentions the principle of solidarity, further ensuring convergence and cohesion and preserving the internal market of equal opportunities for all members. I guess that's the new sovereignty that we hear here what you called it, which stands for solidarity, convergence, cohesion and equal opportunities. This would probably mean an effort to overcome inequality, to counter the results produced by the internal market in which the economically underdeveloped, some form of fiscal union that would overcome inequalities. Of course, we had neither solidarity nor convergence nor cohesion, that we still have Europe two speeds mass emigration, 14% of the working-age population has moved out of our country, that we have a shut-down of production on the periphery and an increasingly unfavourable economic structure of one of the lowest employment rates. The trade deficit between the EU and us is huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2136	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2137	Thank you very much. I don't really understand what your question is, and it might be good for you to say it clearly, whether you are for EU membership or not, if you are or if you are not, then it's all clear. It's just a fundamental setting that assumes any further elaborated one of these topics. The Union exists for the sake of fundamental freedom, for the sake of the common market, for the sake of raising the development of each region and the most underdeveloped at least to the average of those in the Union who have been free in democracy for 70 years. It's not done overnight. What's the VFO for? Why does the next generation's instrument serve? Well, I guess it's for those eight counties that I've listed here in my speech, it comes to a higher level of development than where it is today. It certainly doesn't serve to be lower than where it is today. It certainly serves to keep people in Croatia, not to go to another member. I'm sure it's for economic growth, yes, yes, that's exactly what it's for. It doesn't serve anything else. We need to agree on these basic settings, and then we can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2138	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I congratulate you on the 22 billion Euros you have voted for for Croatia, I thank you for supporting my initiative to provide in particular financial resources in the Recovery Fund and for rural development, which resulted in not only European but also Croatian farmers, it is important that farmers have the weakest incomes when we look at all economic branches and that is why young people are not actually looking for their future in agriculture. We are aware that agriculture brings food production, that it is important for the preservation of the village and for national security. Given that we will receive EUR 4.5 from the EU on each invested euro, it is extremely important to spend precisely on new jobs, on wages, on increasing standards, on generational restoration of the village. I wonder if you can promise us today that in the National Reform Programme and the National Recovery Plan, agriculture and preservation of the Croatian village will be treated as a priority?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2140	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2141	Thank you, beautiful representative Petir, he wants to be part of the National Recovery Programme, he's part of our government programme, you've seen our ambition to want to increase agricultural production by 30%, right, we're talking about self-sufficiency because it's especially important in these circumstances, and I think with such VFO, with this kind of EU-wide instrument, we've created excellent assumptions that we're even more effective at implementing the government programme that we're planning to implement. And that is what is important, and of course we will also go to a number of legislative changes that I think will contribute to the position of Croatian farmers, Croatian villages and even better rural development of Croatia, including demographic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2142	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2143	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke about EU funds and I would like to look back a little on that and, if I may, one question. Yeah, I don't know why you can't hear Can I speak? [[A little louder just.]] So according to the distribution of EU countries, Croatia was to be eligible for some EUR 12 billion, of which EUR 3 billion a year, but we fought for EUR 9 billion 2.2 billion a year, of which 1 billion of these remained in the form of loans. I am interested in why we have failed to fight for these 12 billion, or those 6%, as we have in some way been right, and on the other hand, we in the EU have been the last since '13. Until '19. We invest, we get 2 billion, we invest, we invest 0.6 billion. And we're definitely in the plus, but I'm interested in the fact that the part that we get in the big part is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] return to the countries that import into us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2144	Please stick to the weather. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vrkljan. I have no idea where you got this 12 piece of information, where you saw it, if you heard that 12 piece of information, so it came to 9, when you found me a source, I'll quote it to you. This other thing is all wrong with who you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2146	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2147	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I've seen you avoid answering the question of your fellow Moratories about loans and interest obviously you don't have the courage to stand up to the banks, but I'll ask you one question here, I don't know how many of your colleagues have read this report that's full of bureaucratic information, he said something and the foreign minister about enlargement and it's interesting that you haven't mentioned anywhere the fact that during this rotating presidency, Serbia is actually blocked because of the rule of law in one chapter, and that's what the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium, is an interesting Croatian priority is probably the faster Serbia's entry into the EU, and it should be the execution of obligations. So I ask you, will you perhaps ask the allies for Serbia to be unblocked as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2149	Thank you very much. I know that neither you nor your party know much about the EU. I've been tracking it for years and every time these reports are your contribution is flat zero. And so much of the ignorance that you're talking about right now is what the role of the country that is chairman of the council shows that I'm 1,000% right. So, if you knew anything then you'd know what the country that holds the presidency is doing and what the countries that are within the council are doing and what is the position of the one who holds the presidency and the one who doesn't chair. When you've mastered these alphabets, the alphabets of the functioning of European institutions, then we can speak, and your fixation that we're favoring someone or God forbid we're looking for allies to deblock is essentially talking about you. Just about you. And ignorance and talk about what the core of your message is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2150	We've got four injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you've missed your colleague Miletic, so you can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's take it in a row. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2151	Mr. President, thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, disdaining MPs, I don't think it can be said in such a way that neither Grmoy's representative nor anyone from his party knows anything about the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2152	This, please, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, please, Prime Minister. I'm gonna beg you, just a minute, slow down, just a minute. [[/Intruder: Give him a stop, if he has a right to do this, if he has a right to do this.]] Please, Prime Minister, don't throw it out of the bench, that's the first thing, and the other thing was there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister has the right to speak the way he spoke. You also told your colleague Grmoja that it suits the banks, you also said that Croatia is looking for allies for Serbia's deblockation, so these are things that do not match the truth and are also in a certain way offensive. I'm letting you say your opinion, and I'm also letting the Prime Minister speak his mind. It's the level and standard we've had in the past so I don't think there are any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but it's your right of course to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2153	The Honorable Prime Minister was injured in Article 238, and this reaction was completely inappropriate, but it only shows that I always hit a good target. Serbia blocked twice in 2016 while MOST was part of the government, this presidency lasted relatively short, and it is interesting that Croatia never blocked Serbia during Prime Minister Plenkovic's non-processing of war crimes, because of our campers, because For war damage, but for Finland, Sweden. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] and Ireland. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2154	I'd like to say something, too, but I'm not allowed to watch blockades and deblocks and I'll tell you that later, so maybe you'll look differently at that problem. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2155	That I'm going to apologize in advance if I'm wrong because I'm new to it, but it seems to me that it's harshly injured this Rules of Procedure 238, and I'm uncomfortable about it. Prime Minister Plenkovic would have to apologize to Mr. Grumoja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2156	My colleague Sačić, the debates in the Croatian Parliament are sometimes sharp, sometimes going on the edge of what some consider acceptable or unacceptable, but let me assess when the Rules of Procedure is broken and I will respond anyway, here I estimate that there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure but there has been an attitude that may have been unpleasant for someone but there has been no disinfaction or insult on a personal level. Comrade Bulj, you've also come forward if I'm not mistaken for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2157	Article 238 was injured where the body of the Club of the Independent Lists offended because he said we knew nothing about European affairs. We all know that this government is one of Serbia's key lobbyists, because they did not respect 2 3 chapters, so the 23rd chapter of the judiciary where they failed to fulfil their obligations to Serbia, and you did everything to the prime minister along with former secretary Pejcinovic Buric, you did everything possible to make Serbia open that chapter. No matter how they weren't found missing. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2158	Comrade Bull, thank you for not hurting the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, colleague Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2159	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, first of all I congratulate you on the success you have achieved in the negotiations for the new financial framework, I think that everyone in Croatia is very important for the next period and for the restoration of Zagreb from the consequences of the earthquake and for investing in health care, but also for all other projects at local levels. I therefore hope that for the project of Slovenia in the Carlovakia County, which is very important because this area is extremely demographically devastationed after the war, and also in an economically very bad situation, it will be financed during that period because it is very important for the entire Republic of Croatia because of the geopolitical position of the region, and also at this point because of the migrant crisis, this area is very sensitive. I therefore hope that this project will be realised as well as all the numerous other projects and defences against the flood that is important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2160	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2161	Thank you very much, Representative Jelkovac, it is true that I understand very well the messages we heard at the government session in Karlovac in December 2018, which was important and very high-qualityly prepared to support numerous projects of the Karlovac County. I understand the importance of Slovenia and the historical context and today's situation in economic, demographic terms, developmental sense, sense of need. This is why we have done this project in the government programme and throughout this election campaign, which is modelled by the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which is the project of Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Banovina which, of course, includes the area of Slovenia and we will, as I have said, not only these 8 counties of Pannonian Croatia but also parts of these other counties that need additional support to be given priority in the focus of implementation and absorption of funds and projects in the next 4 and 7 years respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2162	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2163	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, is known that the official style of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of Europe is "a strong Europe in a world full of challenges" which has proved to be in fact a complete truth, i.e. you guessed exactly that in the period of our presidency, a lot has happened starting with the pandemic and further earthquakes and all that has happened in Zagreb. The fact is also that we are within the multiannual financial framework that you have achieved with your team over 2 billion more funds for Croatia, and what is predicted by the means of the next generation. When we compare what's going on on the coast and in my neighborhood, then it's proof of how much it means. All those funds for my county. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2164	There's no answer. Dear colleague Martincevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2165	Dear Prime Minister, for the next programming period, considerable resources have been provided, much higher funds and should certainly be commended. But I would only ask that a clear, transparent model of co-financing be established for local self - government units. Today we have a situation where the counties and cities and municipalities that are successful will no longer be able to report and implement European projects because they will not have the funds in their budgets for the domicile component. If our cities, municipalities and counties will not be able to report and implement projects, Croatia will not be successful in realising European funds and European projects in general. And, of course, we might not be able to absorb the funds we've been granted. The second part of the problem is the current problem of limiting co-financing by the project and by the user who is now in place, which is at the moment the Varazdin County, which is otherwise the most successful county in European projects, has cut 15 million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2166	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2167	Thank you very much, Mr. Martincevic, for this question and for the fact that you are appealing to the government for further support to units of local and regional self-government in preparing and co-financing projects when it comes to the absorption of European funds. So our government has done most in fiscal decentralisation over the past four years. You are well aware of this and there is no county, city and municipality that thanks to our Law on the financing of local and regional self-government no longer has the resources, so there was also a larger and more significant actor for implementing those policies that gave citizens confidence at local levels. We will, therefore, be here and Vice President Marić and Minister Tramišak, not only have we recognized this problem, but over the next few years we will be looking for a model that will facilitate your work and enable faster and more quality project implementation. That's what the goal is and that's what we understand, in the end line it's also a deal within our coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2168	Thank you. Dear colleague Grman Kizavitt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2169	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Remarked Prime Minister, Decision amending the European Union own resources Decision in accordance with Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall enter into force only after it has been confirmed by the Member States in accordance with their constitutional arrangements. I wonder if the Government will refer this decision to ratification in the Croatian Parliament. I have more, since I have only one request, Mr. Jandrokovic. You can cut the climate a little bit, we're freezing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2170	I don't know what she's like, is she cold too? It's winter. Then come on a little bit please reduce the climate by one degree if possible. ... Yeah, you're hot up there, too, yeah. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's hard for me to be just here right now, so turn it down a little bit because there's some down here that's really cold. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2171	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I've heard very little of you, too. I don't know, we've got to do something since the microphone masks, and I think they're way too low. When it comes to own funds when legal acts come on the agenda, then we will assess whether there is a legal need for ratification or not. What you see now is the conclusion that is ahead of you and you will sort of politically and accept it when you vote on this report tomorrow. Thank you, if that was the question. I was trying to figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2172	Thank you. So please, since it's really getting weaker, try to be as close to the microphone as you can when you're talking. ... No, I don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now it's time for my colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2173	Dear Prime Minister, you have presented and presented the great success of Croatia by predicting a large package of assistance for Croatia, we have even received a special paragraph. However, there lies a large paradox. Our biggest failure, which is the fact that we need so much help that we are so poor and miserable that the European Union recognises it as our success. So I wonder, which governments led to this success of failure? I have one question. Is Mr. Charles Michel coming to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the military-raid action of the Storm in Knin? And in that sense evangelical “Whoever stones you, you bread him”, you tell us that we are ignorant and that our knowledge... and I will help you to solve your biggest problem in Solomon next week. It is enough for Mr. Krunoslav Kapak to determine the measures of self-insulation for Mr. Pupovac and Milosevic for two weeks because they were in the assembly with Mr. Hrebak and the problem was solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad you're here now so you'll have a chance to hear the answers to your comments. You've been a commentator for years, a journalist, a columnist. We could have listened to the Bridge gentlemen copy and elaborate a little of your thesis that you wrote them as talking points all this time, because otherwise they wouldn't have thought of themselves. But most of your thesis, especially about what you said about HDZ, about our government's policy, about where I'm going, what I've turned out to be wrong. So what you're saying now, and you're a man is an Italian, you probably went a little bit to European Union countries like Italy, you're aware that those who have been in the Union have been from the beginning or who have come later have not been developed the same way. Well, there's an answer to your magical question about why we need it now and why we don't need others. You don't need to be a doctor of Italianism or an economy to know that. And as for the storm party, no. We do not call anyone this time precisely for epidemiological reasons, and Mr. Charles Michel for those who do not know was constructive in this and helped Croatia, and you will learn this now as a politician when you are not already as a columnist... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2176	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2177	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, fellow MPs and MPs. I am using this opportunity, Prime Minister, to thank you once again for supporting the initiative of 19 of the 23 mayors and mayors of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and our county in the Pannonian statistical... region. I must remind you that the mayor of Bajs SDP and the parties who support him strongly opposed it and pushed us into a more developed northern statistical region. We now see that from this new financial perspective exactly the more significant resources go to less developed regions, and so our Bjelovar-Bilogor County, which is one of the most underdeveloped foundations, will receive the most significant funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2178	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2179	Thank you very much, Mr. Totgergeli. This is all true. Mr. Bajs whom you mentioned as mayor of Bjelovar-Bilogor County had a second position back then. The government decided happily and corrected the injustices of the former SDP government and then the Minister of Regional Development, Mr. Greek, who made the division of which we naturally put into the same basket of more developed parts of Croatia with those who were less developed. I think this statistical map is much better it is essentially a map of economic support and I am glad for the development of the Bjelovar-Bilogian County that we have consulted more people from that county than just the mayor you mentioned. As far as development projects are concerned, we will do everything we can to force even regional development, regardless of which part of Croatia is concerned and no matter who is in power. It's a constant of our policy, and that's how it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2180	And we're going to the last line sent to the prime minister, that's a respected colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2181	Thank you very much. The respected prime minister certainly has the news that 22 billion euros is positive for Croatia and no one is questioning it. Now that we know how much, the key question is how. What I'm interested in is two things. First, when you bring up the National Development Strategy, this is how we like to beat the mother of all the strategies from which all the sectoral strategies should arise, and you yourself said that it should be the basis for budget planning and programming of European Funds after 2020. It should define Croatia's vision, as well as Croatia's development scenarios, strategic objectives and implementation instruments. I want to know when the strategy that was sent is forced into isolation or self-insulation will see the light of day. And second, how do you intend to secure the system, improve the management and control system of the use of the European Funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2182	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2183	Thank you, beautiful representative Glasovac, it's still enough for me to bring 22 billion euros that 222 billion as you say it would be a lot, it's not real, it's, it's a little lap, but it doesn't matter it's all okay, it's not mean, it's not mean, it's real, we'd hardly absorb it with all our desires and appetites, and this structure of fund implementation. It's okay, it happens, it happens. 166 billion kuna around here is not so bad if we want to go to 222. As far as the National Development Strategy is concerned, it's been done long, it's been systematically involved by a number of actors, I don't even know how many concessions there have been at all possible levels, what we have stopped, we have stopped because of Covida-19, as we have stopped in a series of other activities that we have to adapt to what's happening now. So if the EU gives 750 billion after Covida-19 we must also adapt A draft of what will be in the future, and it will be very soon. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2184	We now go to three replicas, which will be addressed to Foreign and European Affairs Minister Grlic Radman. There's a colleague, Fabianic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2185	Thank you. Dear President, Prime Minister, respected ministers in their replica would refer not so much to what there is but to what is not in the report itself, which is a matter of fair minimum wages in the EU. The first phase of consultations by the European Commission was launched as early as January this year, and the second phase is in the process. What comforts us, comforts us that we have this topic as a Croatian Parliament in that work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, so I hope that we will have the opportunity to make up for the lost consideration of my previous debate on the Government programme, as regards the part that is related to the just minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2186	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2187	Thank you very much, Reverend Fabianic. During the chairmanship, Croatia has secured exactly and maintained the social stability of all citizens of all EU member states. What was actually a paradox is that you have an integrated Europe that wants to be as close as possible, and at the same time it wants to be more distant because of the crown of the virus means that this coronary virus would not spread. Croatia has successfully managed and regulated all relations, since all Member States have devoted themselves to their own problems and we have just received great commendation that it has successfully managed the EU Council of Member States and provided transport corridors in order to negatively, would not have negatively implicated the economy of Europe and in general the entire social stability of EU member states. So it's actually big, and this is the result of 22 billion is exactly the result of our efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2188	My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2189	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Prime Minister, ministers, every country that holds the EU presidency is obliged to organise an inter-parliamentary conference on the common foreign and security policy and common security and defence policy. In early March it was held here in Zagreb, it was visited very well, representatives of all parliaments came and only words of praise were heard. You stated in your statement that our presidency was faced with two crises. The coronary pandemic of the virus and the migrant crisis. It is these topics where the EU gives a great emphasis on security that tells us that security is increasingly important because without security there is no development of the economy, investments, investments simply no development of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2190	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2191	Thank you, well-respected Representative Strick, that was precisely one of the priorities of migration, security and, if you remember in my presentation, I said that the Prime Minister, together with the leaders of the European institutions, was precisely for this reason at the Greek-Turkish border. Migration, unfortunately, could not be discussed more significantly, but a package of these measures and changes to the Dublin rules therefore merits discussion and it has been extended for the month September so that Croatia's efforts were precisely focused on migration as an important factor for the security of the European Union but it deserves a more complex and constructive debate so that it was moved to September. But I'm saying this fact where we stopped actually at the Greek-Turkish border is possible entry of migrants is also a Croatian success.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2192	And your colleague Brumnic, please, you are the last.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2193	Dear Mr. Minister and, as a matter of principle, "thank me for my mouth when there is no one else's." What you did not write in the report, which is that during our Presidency the European Union lost that basic part of the European Union, which is solidarity. This solidarity has fallen apart, and it has fallen apart for a simple reason because those who chaired that European Union have been untimely and I would say poor decision-making, and that has embellished your entire government in the past term. I hope this isn't the way it's gonna be. And the quality of the presidency, or how well we have negotiated, shows you the fact that investors are leaving Croatia today. There, we can also mention Meglle and TDR which is what shows how good a country is for investment or how much investors believe in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2194	Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2195	... The European Union has received large calls for solidarity, integrity and unity which could at one point be at one time, so the European Union is a heterogeneous community of 27 Member States. [[You don't understand.]] This crisis has been unprecedented in the history of the European Union, and Croatia has been very visible there. Even the big countries that were organized were somehow turned themselves, and there was a Croatian role as chairman when it came to solidarity, unity and integrity. As far as investment is concerned, we have daily enquiries and investors are coming to us. Croatia is a country with an excellent investment climate, and we will also strengthen this very atmosphere. We are the first country to sail after the opening of the yacht to the Croatian Adriatic so we expect absolutely in tourism, in the economy of major shifts and I think in these four years that we will achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2196	Thank you. This is what we came to an end with the replicas. Before we go any further, I would ask MP Vidović Kristo to put on a mask because I believe you are not solid with all the other 150 MPs and MPs because you do not respect the recommendations of the state bodies or respect the recommendations of the Croatian Parliament Presidency and I ask you again to put on a mask. In case you're not gonna do that, I'm going to re-invocate the presidency on which we're going to decide that there will be no more in the assembly without a protection mask. So that's the obligation we all have and please stick to it. Let's move on now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first club is the Green-Left Block Club and the esteemed colleague Glavasevic. After that, colleague Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2197	The question to which we are returning in many of our parliamentary debates, as well as the debates in the public space of Croatia, is what Europe is and what it should be. The issue is not only current in Croatia. It is current in all Member States of the European Union. This is a testimony to the fact that Europe is a living tissue such as a literary work or a picture in which hundreds of millions of citizens and citizens work constantly through a process of social and political negotiation. Yesterday, on the Committee on European Affairs, we discussed things that are very directly related to asking for answers to this question. Minister Maric briefed us on the last meeting of the European Council where the multiannual financial framework was negotiated and on a package of assistance to the Croatian economy. This will be more said by colleague Peovic in his part of this debate. Minister Grlic Radman gave us a report on the Croatian Presidency of the Union and that is what I would like to focus on in this presentation. Only the presentation of Minister Grlic Radman on the Committee sounded more like a lesson in history than a report. And while we understand his excitement about the fact that he played an important role in the first Croatian presidency of the Union, we believe it is important to maintain objectivity in the assessment and success and failure. First of all, we want to say that we have an understanding of the truly unique circumstances in which we have found ourselves. No one was prepared for the pandemic of the corona of the virus. However, the old proverb says "how do heroes know each other" and unfortunately when it comes to our presidency, I'm afraid we haven't turned out to be heroes. There are several examples for that, and I'm going to give one. When the pandemic hit Italy, the country sought assistance from other member states primarily in the form of facial masks and respirators. That's the help that's missing. If one country should have understood and taken the initiative it is Croatia, if nothing else, and then because of the fact that at that moment we chaired the Union. If we learned anything during the Homeland War, that's the value of solidarity. By holding the helm of the European Union, we have forgotten one important part of our own identity. Solidarity is a value shared by both conservatives and progressives, and when this value was to be lived Croatia did not show initiative. The consequences are not small. Despite the fact that Ursula von der Leyene apologized to Italy. An ultra-conservative movement requiring Italy's exit from the European Union was born in the country. And not just that. Because of this failure, our neighbour and EPP-ovski, by picking up HDZ, Aleksandar Vucic, spread lies about Serbia's failure to receive any assistance from the European Union, but that Serbia has been most helped by China and Russia. What a perversion of the truth of a colleague and a colleague, because it is true that the European Union is the largest provider of development aid to Serbia. Mr. Prime Minister, I was hoping that at least you, as a sworn opponent of populism and radicalism, would know that populism and radicalism are gaining wings precisely on the betrayal of values and principles, autocrats and corrupt political thugs like another HDZ EPP of Viktor Orban will use any weakness of solidarity and humanitarian Europe to justify the destruction of freedom in their countries. Will you react to the asphyxiation of freedom and pluralism of the media in Hungary? Citizens and citizens of the country on the streets of Budapest and other cities shout "Szabad orszag, szabad site". Ask your colleague Jankovics to explain what that means. And that brings me to another important topic, which is the question of the rule of law. During the discussion on the board, I asked Minister Grlic Radman and Minister Maric about what happened to the initiative on the European Council to pay off funds to comply with the common agreed standards of rule of law in the Member States. During the Finnish presidency, the topic was one of the priorities. During the Croatian presidency, the topic completely fell out of focus. Why Mr. Prime Minister? Is that what you were doing to your brother Orban, or were you worried that Croatia might have problems as well? In any event, the fact that there has been no clear agreement on the last European Council and the operationalisation of how this mechanism is implemented is one of the failures of our Presidency. This is not a matter of sovereignty, nor is it exclusively a matter of value and identity, as some of our colleagues have said. This is also a matter of business climate. This is a matter of relationship to corruption. This is a matter of relations with democracy. It is also a question of what kind of Croatia and what kind of Europe we leave to our children. What you failed at was on purpose, either by accident remains our task in the coming time. I hope that the next Croatian presidency will be more successful whenever it comes and that it will happen in a time of better leaders and smaller challenges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2198	My colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2199	The report says that Croatia advocated the principle of solidarity, further ensuring convergence and cohesion, and preserving the internal market and equal opportunities for all members. If so, if we are really in favour of the principle of solidarity, cohesion and convergence, then I guess we are in favour of overcoming inequality and setting counterweights to the results of the internal market in which they compete economically unequally developed. But of course, there is neither solidarity nor cohesion nor convergence. We still have Europe two speeds, a mass emigration from the periphery to the centre, a shut-down of production on the periphery and an increasingly unfavourable economic structure of one of the lowest employment rates in Europe. In 2019, the trade deficit with the European Union amounted to around 71 billion kuna and increased by about 6% compared to 2018. Only 15% of our entrepreneurs export. It is therefore evident that the impact of EU funds in this financial perspective is not positive for the trade in goods with the European Union. However, there is no improvement. Where is this convergence and cohesion? Perhaps in the convergence of our educated countries where they go to work and stay alive? I remind you 14% of the working-age population has been evicted. It's one of the highest rates in Europe. This is an expression of increasingly unfavourable economic structures and the fact that small and medium enterprises cannot be the bearer of neither growth nor the creation of more added value. Just to hold on to how much we used to produce, I remind you of food production in all categories. The resources available over the next 7 years are too small in size. I would remind you that these funds do not even reach the two-year amount of pre-crisis investments in 2008. Loans should now not exceed 6.8% of GDP and investments alone in that pre-crisis year 2008 were around 30% of GDP. Croatia is available for the next 7 years from the new seven-year EU budget of the extraordinary Europe next generation recovery package 22 billion, the famous 22 billion euros. But that's not the amount we have to pay, so 4.6 billion euros. So that's about 18 billion euros net if we use it all. But investments in that pre-crisis year 2008 were about 82.3 billion kuna or around 11 billion euros. So let's see what kind of relationship these numbers are that we all talk about and hope for as some kind of salvation. The next generation of Europe lists various instruments or programmes that should finance the beautiful names of Invest EU, the Instrument for Strategic Investment, etc. It should be recalled what the effects were of Juncker's previous EU president's plan to mobilise these additional investments of at least 315 billion euros over the next three years as private, so-called public investments. From this, nothing important has contributed to the development of the domestic economy. So these packages of instruments have high even names, but the effect will be just like with Juncker's plan. One of the programmes that will be financed is Horizon Horizon for the Research of Health, Resistance and Digital Transition. But we need to ask the question of how far we have withdrawn in the previous period through the Horizon Programme. Almost all resources are spent in the developed West, we do not have the capacity or enough developed scientific research complex to withdraw money for programmes, and the assumption of withdrawal as well as with most of these investments in the most sophisticated research and development is that you are already sufficiently developed. So we're constantly spinning in this circle of development and underdevelopment, so-called. Saveful members of Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria advocated a lower total amount of the new EU budget and an extraordinary recovery package, and for loans, rather than grants, and for shorter repayment deadlines. These same countries, I will remind you of the benefits of using, or less, the EU budget than they should, given the level of development and the level of GDP. This raises the question of where this solidarity is and why Croatia does not openly apostrophe that we need to go towards some form of equalisation of inequality if we want the EU to survive or break it under two speeds. The divergence of the south and the developed north is increasingly pronounced, the common market and the monetary union in that divergence, in fact, clearly the fiscal union that could possibly contribute to that divergence would make a clear contribution. What is important to us is to warn, if we are talking about solidarity, if it is talking about convergence, we must talk about inequality. Here in this report she didn't apostrophe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2200	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement in the name of Stephen Bartulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, I have to get used to talking without a mask again, it's nice and take off and talk like this freely without this interference. As for this item of the agenda, I will say a few introductory words about the Croatian EU presidency, it will mostly be remembered for the origin of the crown crisis. It is not, of course, the fault of Croatia, but it has overshadowed the entire agenda, there have been pompous announcements that this is a historic moment, etc., but these exaggeration expectations I would say were not met and in the end we have a pandemic that has interfered with our reality and now we have to deal with it. However, I would like more today to address this agreement in Brussels. Earlier I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic about China's irresponsible behaviour. In his reply, he stressed that something helps us deliver medical equipment, but is it good that we depend on the country to such a extent that hospitals would not be sufficiently supplied with the necessary materials. It's actually a sign of great weakness. It would be much better if we ourselves could produce those essential products that have actually become of strategic importance today. Unfortunately, however, the EU's conclusions do not mention the main cause of the pandemic at all, this is an unprecedented situation, but a strong Europe did not have the strength, it lacked the courage to send at least one critical word to the communist country. He would therefore warn that today the entire Western world is looking at relations with China in a new way, and so I suggest Croatia will have to. It should be commended that the Croatian delegation has fought for an additional €500m for cohesion policy and rural development. Titles, however, leave the impression that Croatia will get double compared to the previous one, but it should be warned that each member will get significantly more due to the new recovery fund, not just us, we are not the exception. The fact that €7.55 billion is foreseen for cohesion policy is actually a sign that our country has failed to raise the living standards of our citizens. Let alone that in the next budget we'll need less from the cohesion fund. This would mean that we are achieving a higher standard and approaching the European average. In the past term, we have often heard the word stability, which is in some ways the main concept that stood out, but unfortunately in Croatia it means economic stagnation. It's not an achievement. We have an estimated drop in GDP for this year of around 11%, so the cost of inaction, not implementing reforms will now be charged. If we are already talking about stability, let it be stability but with high rates of GDP growth and living standards. Otherwise, the benefits of EU membership will continue to be very modest for ordinary people who continue to seek jobs outside our country. Our condition is actually next. People leave Croatia at the beginning of their working life to participate in the construction of other countries, and those who are at the end of the working life are those who are returning to Croatia. That's the balance sheet, and we need to explain what it's all about. The situation remains very unfavourable, and if something doesn't change soon, it will, in fact, continue to be in some way an incentive for many to leave because they are easier to find new jobs outside Croatia. I propose that the main concept in this mandate be freedom, not stability, but freedom, especially economic freedom. This is what Croatia lacks if it really accepts my proposal I will be the first to welcome it. However, I would like to put into the context of this figure, these amounts discussed today. What is only certain now is that we will pay 4.6 billion euros, our contribution to the common budget in 2027, remains only available and will much depend on the ability of the public administration to prepare good projects according to the rules set out. Out of the total 22 billion net income is about 15 billion euros, so if we're at the level of absorption of these 80% funds, that's about what we achieved last year. Thus, when we compare the situation with other countries, let's say one Slovakia has now received 33 billion euros in this package, 11 billion more than in Croatia, and a lower GDP decline is expected for Slovakia. If we have an 11% forecast for Slovakia, then a lower drop in GDP is projected, and they receive 11 billion euros more for this period. The young people who may listen to us should know that this money will return, so the EU is in debt and that within 30 years of the start of payment in 2027, until 2058 money will be returned, so the young people entering the labour market will pay back a large part of their working life, which will be spent over the next few years. And that's very important how that money will be used here. We know that green policy is encouraged, for example, but in Croatia this policy unfortunately ends up in affairs like the last one with wind power plants. So it is not certain for us that projects will be implemented in a way that serves the general good, because of our practice of favouring well-netified structures, it should nevertheless be said that this money can eventually be spent in a very non-transparent way and at the expense of citizens. If we were able to withdraw even to the last euro what is available, the entire amount, it is approximately at an annual level slightly less than 6% of the annual GDP. So I would like to look back at the other 94% that is created in Croatia, how we will manage and manage it. For the past four years, there have been no serious reforms, and unfortunately the cost of inaction I say is very high. If our government had devoted reforms to structural reforms how much time it has devoted to keeping chairs with the help of chips, we probably wouldn't be in this difficult situation. For example, Poland expects a drop of only 4.3% so much less than we do because they have made the necessary changes in time. I will also remind myself that it took Croatia seven full years to recover from last recession in 2008, and this recession is expected to be much deeper. So it's time for decisive steps, decisive moves. It should also be noted that the demanding reform of public administration, for example, is easier to implement at a time of favourable economic opportunities, but this is not unfortunately done. Today we have much more difficult circumstances and the government has let her do what she needed to do and now it will be saddened to do what Croatia has to do. We are also aware that grants will be strictly conditioned and supervised and therefore we propose that most of the funds be directed towards small and medium-sized enterprises that employ the largest number of people and must be the engine of economic growth. Policy must not continue where the state reroutes most of its money because only the real sector creates additional values instead of a state apparatus. If we don't realize it to ourselves, I'm afraid there'll be more cases like Magla, more examples of companies leaving our country because there's not enough hearing for business reality, they'll just go away and we'll suffer. The question is how to increase the productivity of Croatian companies and make them stronger and more competitive, it is very much said. We propose the first tax reduction and the full burden, which includes contributions. Our people have to start thinking about the gross amounts of their salaries, not just net, but then they'll realize how much the state apparatus actually costs, how much it burdens our businesses and employees. What we have heard from the government so far is too little and too late, unfortunately the public sector continues to serve as a place where people are employed. In one term, it's quite a number of jobs and it costs everything, this huge work sector. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, I would like to finally say a few words about the long-term consequences of these agreements that have been reached now in Brussels. We need to be careful about all the announcements that this agreement represents a historic success, in fact, most praise this agreement by those forces who want even deeper EU integration, the centralised decision-making in Brussels. For us, the fact that the EU is in debt for the first time as a common body means that fiscal consolidation will follow, this means the same control over national borrowing and taxation. When such competences are passed on to Brussels, national sovereignty and democracy itself will weaken. That should concern all Croatian citizens. The EU is one framework where every country and ours can also achieve and promote their national interests, and so we need to view our membership in a pragmatic way. However, if powers continue to be transferred, and this joint borrowing will necessarily mean this, so there will be increasing pressure to consolidate the EU and in these fiscal issues a very challenging time awaits us. It should be warned, these may be long-term consequences, but we need to speak out loud about it already now. I hope that after these next seven years, we will be in a much stronger position, not to the opposition of beggars who are happy to get some 100 million euros more than to really serve as an example of success in the EU. I think we can just have a little more courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2202	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the bridge of independent lists, and time will be shared by respected representatives Troscott and Rasudiæ. First of all, I assume he's a respected representative of the Raspadic, given that he's risen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2203	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In this review at the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, it should be returned to the start, in a way that is presented in the Croatian public, and presented in a mysterious way where we have been able to bear witness since 2018 that a bureaucratic rotation is usually presented as a great achievement of Croatia. In 6.5 years of Croatian membership in the EU, 6.5 times 2, 13 countries have done so before the presidency. Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic on the press issue, who presided earlier last time did not know the answer. So in a bad way, we presented something that has seriousness, and it would say that as plus the Croatian presidency in specific circumstances, we have shown administrative bureaucratic capacity to do this task, but it seems to me that every independent state in the world has that capacity. So it was wrong at first I usually repeat a bureaucratic rotation that in itself does not have a particular importance to present as a great achievement. The presidency took place in very specific circumstances that you know about the coronary virus so that as we see in the report already on 9.3. all meetings in Croatia were postponed and jobs were carried out as far as possible through the video conference. A small one, the report mentioned the synergy effect with Rijeka European Capital of Culture in 2020, so it would be good to hear a review now in the coming period after the summer break, I would particularly like to hear the Minister of Culture since the state has very much co-financed the project, a reference to all the dubiosis, resignations, malversions, the accusations that took place within the project which will definitely be obtained in some segments by a judicial epilogue. A language report, and the language is never neutral and innocent, the language of the battle is seen in it by a typical bureaucratic noun, so we read the quote on "a number of challenges in the increasingly complex world whether as comrades the situation is extremely complex". In my opinion, we find a problem with the concept of a region that we should not have adopted because the region is by no means geographically neutral but it carries political connotations in Croatia, and then we have some Calks obviously from English, which I think is inappropriate to use in the Croatian language report. It's about promoting stability, security and resilience in the EU environment, I guess it's a resistance, I don't know what that resistance would be. There is talk of a problem that began before the crown, which was a new migration wave and problems at the Turkish-Greek border, but what was missing was a review of the old, summary of what happened five years ago. I will repeat here the question I asked last week, which is that I expect the prime minister to refer to the words of President Milanovic, who twice in the pre-election campaign, which I have heard, repeated, and perhaps even more said that in the time of the great refugee crisis, Angela Merkel asked him to keep 100,000 migrants in Croatia, so where we were expected to be the hotspot that would force people where they didn't want to be, so that the more developed countries could break through from that end of the camp where we were guards of the hotspot of people who fit them for the labour market. No reference to this crisis is given. We have no reference to the Schengen, to the fact that the Schengen has fallen apart in a few years before our eyes. For the first time during the migrants' great crisis where suddenly the national borders were resurrected, who put the police, who the army, who the wall, who the wire, disappeared the Schengen, melted overnight. Similarly happened with the crown crisis where each state led both national and security policy and closed borders and determined measures of volunteerism to each other. The enlargement is mentioned among other things, I quote "specially strong political support from the Western Balkan countries on their way to the EU", I have never heard of why, which is the interest of the Republic, might have it, but I would like to hear an argument that is of interest to Croatia that Vuciceva Serbia enters the EU? What is our interest in BiH joining the EU? Can we set some conditions on BiH's accession route? It is not bilateral blackmail as Slovenia has done to us but rather certain things that really concern European values, in BiH it is a matter of electoral law that has been violently changed, which should be returned to the Dayton grounds, which is that every constituent people can choose their own representatives. We see in the example of Bulgaria's statement how Bulgaria conditiones the accession path of Northern Macedonia, I see no reason why Croatia does not, I repeat, for the sake of universal European values, not some bilateral of its interests. There's no reference to Brexit's metrics, which is why Brexit happened. So is it possible that a people with a long democratic political tradition with strong British institutions would go crazy overnight and commit political suicide? What the mainstream media has presented to us, as here are some uneducated, screwed up, terrified, and when they come out, they'll be hungry, the pound will crash, toilet paper will disappear, everything that hasn't happened. It is one culture of pushing problems under the carpet, instead of discussing now within the EU what drove most of the citizens of Great Britain to leave the community and that these problems are being solved so that they do not happen and repeat themselves on other examples. The old and fundamental problem of the EU is increasing, the problem of the democratic deficit, which is that more and more decisions on the life of EU citizens are being made by people, bodies that no one has directly chosen and which are not directly responding to anyone. This is evident from their vision towards referendums because each went badly according to what the Brussels oligarchy wanted. It is enough to mention the Dutch referendum on enlargement to Ukraine or the already mentioned referendum in the UK. Then we witness the increasing red tape of the EU, already mentioned in a new speech that is a clear signal that something is not working. Where our content comes to impoverishment and bureaucratization of language as a superficial first phenomenon that we can perceive. The EU has become increasingly involved in anthropological experiments and in imposing such attempts on Member States, and so this document mentions gender-aware policy, I do not know what that would be and what that would mean and what kind of support it has in Croatia. The notion of rule of law is increasingly being used as a euphemism for discipline of the non-performing Member States, so this is an increasingly smaller alliance of sovereign states and this draw-up and the creation of dependence on funds from the Brussels fund in essentially one way to cover up the protection of the rule of law of that country tomorrow. In short, I think it is necessary to save the EU from slipping into something that looks more like the Soviet Union and will ultimately lead to a disintegration, and what started with Brexit, face problems and discuss problems. In that sense, I'm going to end up with a quote from Professor... Ryszard Legutka of Krakow, who is a representative of the European Parliament, says this, quotes "The opening but relatively careful touch with EU institutions makes it possible to sense the stifling atmosphere of political unanimity, to notice the strong ideologies of the destruction of language that turns into a special kind of new speech, to create a reflection that cloudes the image of the world and enmity towards all dissidents as well as many other things well known to anyone who remembers the People's Republic of Poland". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2204	The esteemed representative, Plasimir Troscott, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2205	Dear MPs and MPs and esteemed citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. When we talk about the Croatian presidency should separate the rating into two levels, one is technical, and one is a political level. As regards the technical level, it is undeniable that absolutely everything has been done to ensure that Member States or meetings are maintained and that the objectives set are achieved. The premises were secured, the National Library was the venue where meetings were held and we also had baroque concerts held in our HNK and that's good. To be clear, as regards the technical level assessment itself, not only is HDZ in charge, there are certain individual experts, certain teams within the ministries and experts working in the permanent representation of the individual area. It should also point out that there is an EU secretariat that employs over 3,500 employees to help smaller and younger Member States. However, when we talk about the political level of the presidency, I find it difficult to single out a political vision, an initiative by which Croatia will remain remembered in our presidency. We're going after some of the countries that presided before us. As for Malta, Malta has made great efforts to prevent the threat of the younger generation as Malta is the most threatening nation within the EU. Estonia, Estonia has promoted the country's innovation and digitisation, especially by electronic voting, which would be very welcome to us, given that Estonia has been monitoring high rapidity in the vote since the electronic vote was put in place. Today, Estonia is the concept of a digitized member state. Bulgaria has imposed itself as a leader in the EU summit in Sofia, whose chairmanship took over Austria with the "Europe Protecting" Syntagma in Austria. Austria has imposed itself as the most important member and has contributed most to security in the EU, which has based its policies on the 3 main pillars. The first is security and the fight against illegal immigration, the second is competence and security, prosperity through digitisation, and the third is stability in general in the neighbourhood. As far as Romania is concerned, it is very interesting that it is the Member State that has done the most to modernise the European Statistical System. Interestingly, AR programming languages were even mentioned in official statistics, and Romania remained remembered within the EU. Finland. Finland has been profiled through ambitious climate policies, especially sensitive to their CO2 control policies in aviation, wind power plant construction in Vietnam, drinking water in Uganda’s chlorine system. Transparency. Transparency at the level of document collapsing between councils, parliaments and commissions. Council meetings during the Finnish presidency were all public, and meetings between ministers while Finland chaired and lobbyists were recorded and public. It is a pity that the very longing for Croatian transparency has fallen with Prime Minister Plenkovic, who did not hand over the bills and documents when he was on his official trip to Finland. What about our Republic of Croatia? No one argues that we have managed the COvid crisis very successfully. However, what is the fact is that our management of covid has remained undetected within the European media elites. When we talk about covid, European media have written about one Portugal, about one Slovakia, and the Republic of Croatia, the EU presidency, has fallen short of the European media and political scene. Italy and Spain on this issue are outsiders. The final score of the political level is next. The party in power and the chairmanship tried to use it for the personal breakthrough of individual political leaders, such as our prime minister. For some Emmanuel Macron, Angela Merkel and Charles Michel on speed dial is a political success unprecedented. However, for, perhaps, the personal breakthrough of our prime minister, for the Republic of Croatia, this presidency is essentially a missed opportunity to stand on the euro stage as a country with a political vision to agree with our representative, Mrs. Nuts. We have seen from the example of other countries that they have managed to make good use of their ability to hold the presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2206	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which time will be shared by respected MPs Pavić and Balic, and first respected representative Marko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2207	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, it is a pleasure to present on behalf of the HDZ Club the reports of the European Council, and later, counterpart Balic will say more about the presidency itself. The end of the European Council and 22 billion is a great success for the Republic of Croatia, a great success for Prime Minister Plenkovic himself who devoted himself to it. When we only remember that the first proposal for a multi-annual financial framework came out in May 2018 and that then the country's presidents used a tool, so-called By the end of 2019, the new president of the council would have taken the initiative that during the meetings of the councils that the Republic of Croatia, during the Croatian Presidency, had improved the files and finally reached agreement in the 7th month. What are the main dynamics here, what's the game? The game is such that on the one hand we have 17 countries of cohesion, including the Republic of Croatia, which have a lower average compared to the GDP average, on the other hand 10 net paying countries that have more developed economies. On the one hand, these funds, cohesion funds, and now the Recovery Fund will also serve for convergence, or to come in parallel with the GDP rate, and on the other hand 70% of the transactions financed by them go to companies of more developed economies of the EU or Western Europe. And so some fear that we're going to owe some young people, I don't see which young ones. Croatian youth will certainly not be in charge of the multiannual financial framework and the Recovery Fund when we have 26 billion kuna more payments than we have paid. more payments from Brussels than we have paid in the European budget. Neither German nor Austrian nor French youth will be in debt because their prime ministers are aware, so this agreement had to be reached by consensus, that they had to assign their young people would not sign it, that they would finance it from increased economic activity, 70% of jobs going to Western democracies from increased tax payments. So the system works that on the one hand we get cohesion and convergence and development, and on the other hand more developed parts of the EU get jobs and increased payments in their budgets simply because they are more meaningful, because they are more economically powerful. The total package, i.e. EUR 1824 billion. When we take, so someone said this second part of 750, so it is, the total package is not twice as big as the multiannual financial framework, but the Republic of Croatia has received twice as much as this existing multi-annual financial framework. Only by that we see that we were more successful than others. How successful we were also talking about the situation that we knew was being followed by the recovery fund and that we could enter strong recovery measures, specifically over €5.5 billion through the Employment Office for over 600,000 jobs because we knew, we participated in negotiations that the recovery fund would also come. When we look at the multi-annual financial framework of EUR 12.7 billion and the recovery fund of 9.4, so over EUR 22 billion. Of which 500 million EUR was elected at the last European Council. I see that there are.../incomprehensible/... i.e. Mr. Drobnjak was also Mr. Savik there, they also know well how much it meant and what everything had to be done to deal with it. EUR 300 million, i.e. on Article 65, was increased to EUR 400 million, which is only for Croatia and an additional EUR 100 million for rural development. So, EUR 500 million additional on the last council for Croatia alone. That we'll know to spend enough talking data and data on usage and these envelopes. When we took over 9% of the contract and 1% of the payment, we are now at 97.6% of the contract and just over 37% of the payment. Some operational programmes such as maximum competitiveness and cohesion have already been subdued to 108% and we act as each responsible member to go over-the-counter individual operational programmes to make use of every EURo cent after cleaning the budget and eventually any corrections. So we won't lose a cent out of this envelope, and I believe we won't lose a cent out of the next one. It would be very important, and that I was personally present at, in a meeting in Portugal, the prime minister of cohesion to fight for some of the things that are important to Croatia throughout the VFO. The multi-annual financial framework itself or the package is a large document will also consist of one of the 50 regulations that the European Council and Parliament will now adopt. But what matters is that it remains rule N+3. So one year's funding can be used 3. It took Croatia some time to speed up the processes. Last year, we were closing n+3 this year already 83% of that goal is closed. The second thing was today's debate on local communities. On the one hand, we must and the prime minister pointed out that we will make additional efforts, i.e. that the government will make additional efforts for the future mandate to find additional funds and additional models. On the other hand, it was very important to keep the 15% co-financing rate. In certain proposals, therefore, these so-called so-called The mega boxing, the Finnish presidency was 30%, so then it was at 25 we managed to keep 15. Croatia was also very much in favour here. There have been some questions about the Horizon, so we already know that within the existing multi-annual financial framework 25% of the sea cohesion will go to research and development. So we better have this in our national envelope and that our national envelope is bigger than in an open competition for which Croatian scientists are still preparing, learning and improving their capacities so that they can report to community programmes. When we talk about the recovery mechanism and the resistance of EUR 9.4 billion, of which 5.94 of which should be irrevocably pointed out that it will have two components. It will have recovery and resilience, which are equally important. The recovery will be the financing of these measures to be financed through a national plan, which the prime minister said would preside over the plan that should be agreed by next year with the European Commission, which should also be followed by the reforms set out in the recommendations of the country specific reports of the European Commission. But what is more important to us is building resilience. Building resilience to these crises and all other possible including building resilience and earthquakes. I have already pointed out yesterday that we will surely be able to deal with the European Commission in a multi-annual financial framework with special priority for the earthquake, as well as that a good part and recovery, or building resilience, will also be able to be used for projects that are going in this direction. Now we have three kinds of programming coming up. On the one hand, we have a recovery fund that has two components, a reaction EU component that is complemented by this financial envelope. We expect that by the end of the year, or with the beginning of the next year, it will be programmed at the latest. It has a component of the fund that connects to the national reform programme and has a component of the multiannual financial framework where the remaining thematic concentrations of up to 30% of cohesion funds have to go to green Croatia and 20, respectively, green Europe, 25% to research and development. In accordance with and in conclusion, I think that a great success has been achieved, that Croatia has certainly withdrawn funds more and better than other countries that have been present, very crucial and the Presidency of the European Council, where we have not only been a mere observer, especially in the recovery fund, that we could place measures of 9.6% of GDP there, knowing that we will not be in charge of future generations, but that we will manage to finance or co-finance these measures from the Sura Recovery Fund or all other programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2208	A respected representative, Marijana Balic, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2209	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected advisers of the Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague of Pavic's, we heard about the report on the extraordinary meeting of the European Council held in Buxelles, and I will look back at this second item of today's agenda, more specifically the report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. First of all, thank you Ministers for the very comprehensive content presentation in the report, and I congratulate you on the excellent work done, both for you and for all the other participants, especially for permanent representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. My congratulations to everyone one more time. I am convinced that you will agree that until now, in unremembered conditions of the Republic of Croatia, it has successfully completed its task of the first historic presidency of the EU Council that we have taken over after only 6.5 years of EU membership. We can say that the slogan of our EU Council Presidency is "A strong Europe in a world full of challenges" somewhat predicate the circumstances of the Croatian Presidency. At the same time, I am convinced that no one could have imagined this many challenges that we had to face, from migration to covid-19 pandemics that have not been seen in the last 100 years and that has really changed all aspects of life both at EU level and worldwide, and of course until this devastating earthquake that has hit our capital. However, it is undeniable that in such specific circumstances Croatia has achieved a number of objectives for the benefit of Croatian and European citizens, which have been set in the programme of our presidency. It is equally undeniable and that on the European international stage we have a position, reputation and reputation that we have never had before, and in this context we can be proud. We are a country that only three decades ago fought for its independence and democracy, and now behind it is the Union presidency of half a billion inhabitants. Similarly, we can proudly say that we are one of the greatest achievements that we have managed to adapt to the crisis mode of action by fully achieving the continuity of decision-making within the EU institutions without which it would not be possible to achieve further important political achievements. We have also heard from the opening presentation of the Minister for the first time in the history of the digital presidency, although we have already heard let me repeat that the main objectives outlined at the beginning of the Presidency were the Zagreb Summit and the return of enlargement policy to the focus of the EU member states, then the preparations for the launch of the Conference on the Future of Europe and the completion of the United Kingdom's organised withdrawal process from the EU, a process that has never occurred in the EU before. In all three areas, it has been drawn. Furthermore, in these difficult circumstances, with strong diplomatic political engagement and the Croatian Council's initiative, the EU has decided to open accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, despite earlier opposition from some influential member states. A new methodology for the implementation of enlargement negotiations has also been confirmed, and a negotiating chapter has been opened, the last one that has not been opened with Montenegro, which is chapter No. Eight-market competition. An agreement has been reached on the mandate of the Council for Negotiations with the European Commission and the European Parliament on the work of the Conference on the Future of Europe. A Zagreb meeting was held at the top of the video conference and was adopted on Zagreb's declaration confirming the European perspective of 6 countries of our Southeast neighbours and it will be said to be a kind of legacy of the Croatian presidency. In addition to the above mentioned report, the report points to other numerous activities and achievements visible in all 10 Council ministerial formations, which is reflected in a number of oral acts, namely 33 and 30 dialogues and 50 agreed conclusions of the Council. Finally, Croatia is truly presented as a reliable and innovative EU member and we can be satisfied and proud of the results and how the HDZ Representatives Club will support the report in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2210	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that Sovereignist in the name of which Croatia's respected representative Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2211	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. I must say that I am also glad that the Prime Minister introduced this practice to report to the Croatian Parliament and citizens and citizens of our country about the European Council and what is happening there, it is commendable. But it's not commendable that he's not here right now, so it's the same relationship with this highest home. Well done to you Minister, you are a representative of the Government yes, but he was a rapporteur there, it was his initiative and I believe that this day in every three months could sacrifice little for the Croatian Parliament. It resented President Milanovic with the right not to be here when the Parliament was established with the right, and he behaves in a similar manner. On the other hand, if he just wanted to let us know, and he doesn't want to hear what we have to say, then there's no point. I don't want to diminish your presence, Your Honor, Minister, but that's not good. The other thing is, purely technical, here's what I see colleagues call our Prime Minister prime minister, so he's the Prime Minister. So, in Croatia, the post of prime minister does not actually exist in the Croatian Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in the laws of its function is called Prime Minister and let's call it Prime Minister. He likes to be called prime minister, but let's just call him a little bit for him to dissipate what he's actually called, or what his function is, and that's the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Now, here I am going to be as concrete and constructive here as I was before, and I'm sorry that the Prime Minister didn't answer the simple question because he doesn't know the answer. Those who followed, he eventually said "the income side is not yet known". What question was, will I remind you, there was a question, where will the money from this come from for, the money that will be given to us under quotes? So, the EU has not yet considered the revenue side. In fact, they were thinking, there they spoke at EU institutions, but they did not inform us, they did not tell us and neither did the Prime Minister, the government issued a single statement on the revenue side. I don't know if you understand what this is about. The loan will be raised, the money will split, but the loan will come back from something. So far, the EU is funded by membership fees, which is clear to all. Are we gonna get a membership fee, is that possible? I don't know, here you ministers can deny me, simply explain to me, if we're going to get membership, that's not what anyone said. The second thing, what I've been looking for is, on the net, all over the Internet, so I found that there's some sort of pan-European tax, is that, I don't know, possible? Let's talk about it. If it's a pan-European tax, who's he referring to? What's he gonna tax on? Will the citizens of the Republic of Croatia be burdened with some new tax that is not national but European tax. And these are legitimate questions, legitimate questions that I don't constantly have an answer to. But here's what I'm asking my fellow MPs to set them up because these are, these are the things we remember no matter how we ignore it now, which are going to be talked about in the coming years. The EU's income side is in trouble. We took out a loan, but we'll pay back the loan, but no one said where we're going to make up for it. There's an idea, I'll even suggest what could be done. Here, experts say that so far has not been taxed, for example. These big businesses like Google, the Internet in general, Facebook, Youtube, so few of them can tax-press, okay that's not bad because they really work without paying taxes. But if this is about, that the Croatian entrepreneur will be additionally tax-laden, which is very, very bad. The second thing we have to pay attention to here is the EURo famous, this ERM 2 course mechanism, so by signing accession negotiations with the EU, we actually committed to introducing the EUR, we didn't say when. Some of the countries that signed it will never introduce the EURo, they're not crazy, we're falling for it. Even I will say that it is legitimate of the Prime Minister that he has one position for the EUR. However, what is not legitimate and what is wrong? That we didn't have an argumentable public debate, first in HS, and second anywhere in public space. We respected ministers didn't have a chance to speak our mind. The project counter, so let's see if the introduction of EUR will bring or take away the Republic of Croatia. The president of the government said that's it, that's good, let's move on, as well as for the Istanbul Convention, but it's not, so it's not, it's discussed and discussed. He can be right, and what if he's wrong? Someone mentioned the release of the UK or the United Kingdom from the EU, and this is the same topic that cannot be discussed in HS, and it is interesting that all those smart people and Europeans who know European opportunities have said that European, excuse me, that the UK will fail, that there is no way that it will survive that exit, but they are now silent. Why are they silent? Because Europe's, excuse me, because Great Britain is taking nice big steps forward, GDP decline is smaller than in the rest of the EU now in the crown crisis, the number of unemployed on average is lower than in other EU countries. And why aren't you talking about it? Why the mainstream media keep silent that, according to these French indicators, the United Kingdom has profited from exiting the EU. Let's talk about it. You deny me if it's not true. Okay, it's all fresh and fresh, but I think all those watching this will agree with two things, that all the mainstream media, all the televisions, all the big and important portals were talking about how the United Kingdom would fall apart, how there would be hunger on the street, how it would be civil war, and it didn't happen, but the exact opposite. It is with measures it has taken with its own economic policy today successfully ships and this crown crisis. A little bit more on funding because that was actually the biggest, most of the government president's speech here at the pay phone. There was talk of that money at the 3rd month when I said from a pay phone in Westin that there was no money, then even some called me, thought I was lying. Today it's almost August, which is, five months has passed, four months full and over, the money's still gone. When will the money come, when will the money come? We'll wait a little longer, we'll wait a little longer because the first thing you all need to know about these decisions has to be verified by who? So the European Parliament because the European Parliament is on its way to verify, no, not yet, the Krka will pass, they would tell me in Sibenik, that it is verifying it, and only then will it be seen exactly how money will be distributed. So, this money over a long period of time, over these seven years, will drop on a drop, no one will give Andrej Plenkovic 22 billion euros, not even those 5.9 billion that have been donated, donated money than that money will go strictly for purpose, slowly and I will still say here if he comes because he has a few more steps to go. Here I am going to dare and say that we will surely wait 9 months for this problem not to be solved, that the money will not be solved yet, certainly 9, here I can bet here with the Prime Minister and with you respected ministers that this money will not be done at the 9th month, and that's a big problem. Here, his colleague Glavasevic mentioned Orban and Plenkovic and gave an equal sign. Comrade Glavasevic, they have no similarities. So Orban is a sovereign and he's really taking measures that are in the interest of his country, while our Prime Minister is a globalist, but he sees that the HDZ voting body loves that sovereignty, so he calls himself a sovereign, but he doesn't do anything about it and he just listens to Mom Merkel and everything she's going to say. Here it is mentioned as one of the important things of the achievement of the Croatian EU presidency that there was a meeting in Zgreb at the top, whether, a very important thing, is a very important thing. Here I don't know, it's so good for the Republic of Croatia that there's been this few dozen presidents and presidents of the states here. A really small Croatian man, a citizen of that colleague really didn't feel on his skin and it might in some foreign policy sense be some achievement, but it specifically for the Republic of Croatia doesn't mean anything at all. Unfortunately, I'd like that to mean it, but it doesn't. One meeting in sequence that will be hundreds and thousands of just one, one small, small meeting and nothing more. But I wish the Prime Minister had used this presidency, so for example, all government presidents and heads of state who participated and foreign ministers took e.g. in Vukovar, he took to Vukovar and showed what Vukovar meant for the Croatian people, which happened in Vukovar before 29 years ago. And let's talk about it a little bit. That's what I'd like it to be, one little thing that would mean a lot more to a small Croatian man, every Croat and Croat in the Republic of Croatia. So, the Prime Minister, here I'm just going to sum up briefly and finish, has given the report exclusively to show once more of his eloquence, erudium, has not so much used foreign words, so we've been denied for here one great part of his knowledge. However, I have not seen from this report that our country in Croatia will be better in perspective, that the small man in the Republic of Croatia will be better, but I see that he had his own media space, will be in all the media, and the mainstream media will again not critically analyse these figures, but only in the way that this corresponds to the current government of the Republic of Croatia. And maybe another little thing to end, and that's what colleagues were talking about, well that they were talking about, which is the relationship of Vukic-Plenkovic. It's a very interesting relationship. So, one, these are colleagues in the European People's Party and once again I will call the Government of the Republic of Croatia to condition Serbia's entry into the EU, let it condition, that you ministers can, indeed, really, you can, I mean, you can, if Andrej Plenkovic let you do it, he won't let you, but you, you could do it. As there is a chapter, if I am not mistaken, 31 entry or relations between Kosovo and Serbia, it would be very nice if there were a relationship and, and the Republic of Serbia, there is no such chapter and instead of conditioning to resolve unresolved relations, today the Republic of Croatia and our Prime Minister are the main lobbyist and advocate of Serbia's unconditional entry into the EU, and this is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2212	Thank you very much. The facts may have worked only by a colleague Zekanovic, this Zagreb summit was a video conference, so no one could come, no one could be led, no one could be led, nothing, you know, there was a video conference. Now, this one, we move on, the next Club of Representatives is that IP, Smart and GLAS, so time will be shared by the respected representative Oreshkovic and Mrak-Taritash, the first respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic, please. ... Right after, after, after this respected MP we'll have a free speech to make. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2213	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. This report is drawn up on the basis of the Law on the Cooperation of the HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs, and this is the first reason for me to point out several provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and so on. In 99th, which prescribes that the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia cooperate in the design and implementation of foreign policy. Next up, Art. Versus 144. 5. The constitution says that the Republic of Croatia in the Council and in the European Council represent, in accordance with their constitutional powers, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Republic of Croatia. The report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council does not mention the country's president anywhere. In the first chapter dedicated to preparing for the presidency, it is presented as a key priority of the government's 2016-2020 programme, not as a key programme for the Republic of Croatia, which, in accordance with its constitutional powers, are jointly formed by the President of the State and Government in accordance with the provisions previously cited in the Constitution, and are then jointly involved in its implementation. In other words, my first objection to this report is that, in practice, we ignore the provisions of the constitution, we should finally have a public debate and say that together as a society. And the second objection refers to content itself. In fact, the EU Council Presidency is shown as an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to present itself and its capabilities to Europe and the world. Minister Grlic-Radman even said it should have been the crown of the European pathway of the Republic of Croatia. So, the opportunity for us as a state to contribute to further effective functioning and further development of the EU. Says one sentence from the report, “it gives a review of the programme, the course of the presidency, and its own preparation and its important results. ” Now related to preparations "priorities are formed in 4 pillars, a Europe that is developing, a Europe that protects, a Europe that connects and influences Europe, and on these objectives and on these topics is a comprehensive programme of the EU presidency". It is listed in the report and lists when these priorities are presented, so it is also during 2019. prepared a comprehensive programme, but again not a word about how it is prepared. In other words, was the president of the country’s then president involved in the preparation of the programme? It is also noted that the final draft is in line with the Office of the Prime Minister. See, that's where it was supposed to be written "with the president of the state," but that's not what it says. Of course, the chairmanship programme was adopted by the government, the report quotes, but it doesn't say anything about what the goals were and what the results were. I asked the Prime Minister today an explicit question to explain it to me a little bit, and he said this divided into these four thematic units, "Europe that protects us, so here's Europe that protected us from the covids. Europe connecting, which is the common response of Member States to preventing the spread of coronary disease through the virus. A Europe that develops, so this is your financial plan and recovery program caused by the economic consequences of the coronary crisis. And an influential Europe, so here is the Europe that can find a common response to the global pandemic." My question is, and what would be our contribution according to plan and program if we hadn't been covided? So this report reveals the lack of vision and lack of external political identity and ideas. In addition to being purely bureaucratised, so as there is no content, most of the report itself lists the meetings of bilateral consultations, but always only the Prime Minister. I would like to point out that the Republic of Croatia is one state and its foreign policy must be one and a unique and there is indeed a lot of practice in which, in foreign policy, the President of the State and the Prime Minister are driving on two separate railways, each by their own means, and I think this would be a moment when we could consider whether to add to the Law on the Cooperation of the HS and Government additional provisions which will work out the relationship between the Government and the President of the State, or whether we will pass a special law. Furthermore, the report shows that the biggest and unfortunately the only benefit that we as a state have been able to achieve is that the National and University Library has received an additional convention and conference section. My conclusion is, well, what kind of preparation, such and the results of the non-ideal and unsecured because if we had predetermined what we wanted to do, then it wouldn't be like that, we wouldn't be so focused on just listing conferences, round tables, video calls, who's how many times he's called by phone. If we talk about what should be a Europe that protects, which is the Europe that connects, is an influential Europe, then the key phrase of this report would not be that the start of the Presidency was solemnly marked by a concert of baroque music in the most famous Brussels hall of Bozer. That's what some other MPs saw. Indeed, a special part of the report is dedicated to the number of concerts, the number of theatre and film objections, even states that we had 24 specially organised concerts for foreign envoys here in the Republic of Croatia. In other words, this report contains absolutely nothing. The only useful information we can get out of it is that the repatriation was returned to the Republic of Croatia 630 000 of our fellow citizens, and therefore we can conclude that about that much in the last few years has gone from the Republic of Croatia because of the very bad policies of the previous government. We also further emphasized our inability to articulate clear foreign policy, visions and goals by boasting that we had influenced the change in our Rules of Procedure, so we made it possible to adopt certain acts in writing and meetings can be held by video link, but even this was caused by the coronary crisis, not by some idea or initiative. In Alkarski dictionary terms, the Croatian presidency has turned into one big nothing, but the whole of Europe's crown crisis has given us some idea of what kind of content. I therefore call on the government, as well as the president of the state, to make a single step in foreign policy matters, and unfortunately this report cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2214	Honorable representative Anka Dark-Taritash is part two of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2215	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to do a little bit more about those 22 billion that are shown in public space as a sensational success and we're going to pump up everywhere where the money's missing and everything's going to be okay. It is, of course, an illusion, not to use one harsher word, that illusion is the consequence of several interpretations, events and agreements that have been reached, which are so optimistic that it is really hard to believe where the Prime Minister and his associates have found their pink glasses. So there was about an illusion that our Prime Minister had returned from Brussels with 22 billion euros in a bag. That money exists as a possibility for the Republic of Croatia, but it is on a very long stick and is looking for very serious plans, reform steps and respect for fundamental values, and when we say so, then we need to become aware that this optimism on that fact falls rapidly. One of the optimistic interpretations is that it really is about the 22 billion that are here and it just needs to be spent. It's very far from the truth. First, it's money allocated to the next seven years, and it's not available immediately. The second of these 22 billion still needs to be taken away from what we are paying into the budget and the third most important thing that is these 22 billion is available through either the multi-annual financial framework or through the next generation or most of all through the recovery and resilience mechanism. And here we are already coming to Croatia for serious problems. The funds from the multiannual financial framework require the ability to withdraw from the last and most important payment step to end-users. Well, we're in trouble, regardless of the great effort of the Prime Minister and the Minister to convince us of something that's wrong because we're still disastrously bad. We are not somewhere in the middle, we are not in the bottom half, but thanks to the two HDZ governments behind us, by the percentage of the funds paid from the EU funds, we remain in the last place. And why and why we should now believe that money from the next financial perspective will be better, faster, more efficient use. We don't have a single guarantee that would ensure that this is the case. From this willingness to use money from the multiannual financial framework, we are even more concerned about our willingness to use money from the next generation of the EU programme, namely the recovery and resilience mechanism. Therefore, the report states the following quotes "To use these funds, the National Recovery Plan should be drawn up based on the European Semester and specific recommendations for each of the Member States. The plans will focus on strengthening the potential for growth in the economy, creating new jobs and strengthening economic and social resilience, further national plans must be in line with the objectives of the EU's digital and green transition." These plans are then assessed by the commission, their compliance with the recommendations, and in particular with the possibility of contributing to green and digital transition. The plan must then be given a qualified majority per council, and a positive assessment of the requirements for or payment requests will depend on the satisfactory achievement of key stages and target values. But not all, any Member State may if it considers that the objectives do not meet the subject to be sent to the European Council for debate. So we know that there are countries that have been very reluctant to the first versions of this agreement precisely because of concerns about how to spend the huge money available here. They have installed some of their reserves and demands in the final proposal, but not all of them, and we, in order to even think about these billions that we have already brought in from Brussels, must first create serious reform plans, so far we have not been too inclined to do anything about it. And then we still have to be able to lead the processes in line with the objectives and plans set along with a part of the Member States that will be very interested in following closely how we are doing. And here's why we're worried about our use of that money. That we understand each other regardless of all the compromises and birth problems that followed this plan is an important and major agreement at EU level. And one topic I would like to mention for the end, which is spoken little or no in the report of the Prime Minister. This is the theme of linking payments to respecting the fundamental values of liberal democracy and the rule of law. Of course it's for example. Hungarian Prime Minister Orban had major objections to these ideas. I hope that our Prime Minister Plenkovic, as well as all our ministers, and especially the foreign minister in the future will be more clear in condemning those who are under the auspices of the Union and using its money to trample its values. I hope that the Republic of Croatia will in itself strengthen the rule of law and democratic institutions and values. If it does become a crucial criterion for your money, our 22 billion could eventually fit instead of that big bag in one little bag. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2216	Thank you. We're moving on with the dot. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to start with what my colleague used to say. We have delivered a lot of suggestions in the last session about the crisis and the crisis, but somehow I don't remember that the rulings were so happy to discuss our proposals, and then even less than happy to adopt some who were good at the general assessment. In the end, some are, but only from their proposals. Well, that's something else now. Dear Minister, I am sorry that I cannot welcome the Prime Minister, namely his report, one of these two is hiss, which he has submitted to HS, and I would like to begin by welcoming the practice that this report is going to the home Committee on European Affairs. That was not the case until now, it came directly to the prey and the conclusion that would be suggested to the tide would be signed by clubs as a rule by the clubs of the majority. I think this is a good practice because the Committee on European Affairs is a parent body so that a much more focused debate can be held on it and that the debate can ultimately be better at the tide. But let us take the lead, so a few remarks about the meeting of the European Council. Some more than 12 billion euros have been said before in the multiannual financial framework, and the rest is actually the Covida-19 pandemic Recovery Fund, and it will be the purpose money in the form of loans. But while the government rejoices over these enormous amounts, I think the real work is just beginning or as Churchill would say, after the victory that turned course II. World War I, "This isn't the end yet, it's not even the beginning of the end, but maybe it's the end of the beginning." Okay, I got the amount, but what do we do with it? The more important question is, how are we going to, and how much money are we actually going to use from this? Because the questions that I haven't heard the answers to which I want and which are more crucial than the amount itself is where we're going to focus that money, what are our goals, do we have a development strategy, do we have strategic branches that we want to focus and invest in? Who will participate in programming operational plans, will the private sector that is extremely affected by the pandemic be involved, and which assistance is now needed? So, operational programs who, where, how, who, why, why. Unfortunately, taught by experience, I'm afraid that money will either remain unused or will be spent on projects that will not generate added value. What am I talking about? I've already talked about this phone booth, even though it's nice to rebuild social homes in our empty villages, it's not enough. It is not enough to keep people in Slavonia or in any rural area, it is not enough and it will not generate new jobs and it will not significantly improve the quality of life at the end of the day. It's very nice to have social homes, but what's the added value of it. And that's why I'm afraid the money will be channeled back into things that won't bring us added value, new jobs, new employment, new investments, etc. Because other than our experience so far shows that we are very bad at withdrawing the money that EUROSTAT data is talking about, no one is talking about the more important fact. Therefore, EUROSTAT provides you with information on how much money has been withdrawn or agreed, etc., but no one is talking about corrections, how much money has been agreed, and whether or not paid back because the projects have not passed the European Audit or because there have been irregularities or in the way money is spent or in something else has not been followed by the most frequent financial plan etc. If you take that into account, I'm afraid our statistics would be much, much, much worse and it's actually a tragedy. And at the end of the day, I would like someone to explain to me, 100 million euros of European money in the Czech Republic is being opened 100 jobs, and in Croatia 20 with the same EU money withdrawn from European funds. How? Where's our added value? Then obviously that's where we're wrong, and that's obviously where we don't spend that money so that we shouldn't spend or create jobs. I'll stop there. So as far as this report is concerned, there's a very big job in front of us, and there's a minister who's taken over the European funds and in front of the entire government, and we're going to keep track of it. I hope in the interest of the Croatian public and the Republic of Croatia that this money will be directed there di-need. But you know what they say, that sometimes it's a promise, even though we get a guarantee that that's how it's gonna be, like, crazy joy. And now let me look back on the Presidency of the EU Council. So we've heard a lot about this speaker here and not just today about Eurorealists, I guess that's a new one for Eurosceptics. I wouldn't say I'm a Eurosceptic or a Eurosrealist, I'm more of a croatosceptic. Why? Because I'm skeptical of how we position ourselves in the Union and I'm skeptical of how we use our positions and tools available to us in the Union to fight for our interests. It's nothing illegal, though it's desirable, but if we use them at all, that's another question. It is interesting that politics is used as a once very credible and serious choice, and sometimes it is not, depending on what they say. And unfortunately here I must repeat my colleague Rajko Ostojic's words and agree when they said that the Croatian presidency is actually a disaster. And the disaster is primarily from the Croatian perspective. Why? So let's move in order, first of all, to determine the priorities of the presidency, they're too broadly ambitious, so these are priorities that can cover everything, and at the same time they can cover nothing. It is the practice of the EU in much more organised countries that smaller countries that do not have such infrastructure capacity mainly focus on less targeted or focused priorities, concrete priorities because "Safe Europe", I think we can underline absolutely everything there. Except that they are unclear, except that they are broad and ambitious, and none of me would judge who is to find the priority that was in Croatian interest. And what would be Croatian interests? Why did Croatia, during the chair of the table, not put electric cars, reduced emissions, work very proactively on this topic, why? Well, we've got Roman cars, and here we are, not far from here. That kind of industry would benefit from that. Why didn't we emphasize digitization? Okay, well, it's just that, uh, we had to, uh, we had to, uh, we had to. And why is that? Because we have a strong IT sector. Here is Osijek Softcity in Zagreb there are very many young people and all over Croatia who are very, very successful IT entrepreneurs. So I have not seen anything from the outset that would bring additional benefit to Croatia. The more I have to say, let's just say that the civil sector is not consulted at all during the priorities, and neither is the opposition at all. So if you gentlemen want to listen, if you want a consensus then you have to listen, then you have to endure sometimes being critical, but not with bad intentions. The presidency's achievements are unfortunately as thin as the priorities set. The added value for Croatia is zero, zero, zero, zero, as the prime minister likes to say. And why is that? Because we set the story wrong in the beginning. Of course, the pandemic found us as well as the entire Union, but since the crisis could be the end of something so it could be the beginning of something new, and we didn't use it enough, we didn't impose enough, we didn't hit the pace, we didn't offer solutions. We've left what the English say, "Go with the Flow", we're going with a while, so where does it take us? We allowed the European Commission to take over all the initiatives, and our presidency is that the rule is dead. One reach is probably virtual meetings, but I mean everyone, and unfortunately such families are many who have to communicate with their family members with this kind of vision because they went after bread either in Europe, or further into the world will tell you that it is nothing new. Skip has been used for a long time. There's been a lot of talk about Brexit as the achievement of our presidency, and I really don't see what we've been doing with our loveliness. In the end, Brexit depended primarily on the vote in the British Parliament, and then the other negotiations that had nothing to do with the presidency began, but rather with the main negotiator already appointed by the President of the European Commission. Extending and discussing enlargement can be seen as something that has done good. So for Northern Macedonia and Albania, a new methodology, for example, in the negotiations and in the accession of the Union did not advocate Croatia but France, so it is not our initiative, Zagreb sent a political message, but which is an operational message from colleagues and colleagues. Sometimes I get the impression that the EU doesn't even know what to do with the Western Balkans. As for Montenegro, which has been negotiating for more than a decade and has been doing it quite successfully on EU-rated reforms, it is getting excellent opinions, as well as Macedonia, as well as Albania. I think that the EU has no alternative particularly in this thorny area, if the EU is created because of something, it has been created because of peace, open borders, the sharing of resources of either human or some others, but that is why the emphasis should be on this region, stabilisation, reforming the region and ensuring long-term peace, because we ourselves have witnessed and the recent, recent conflicts since the Homeland War, the war in BiH, the unrest in Macedonia, Kosovo, etc., so behind us are a very, very violent decade of EU and common policy can, it can calm down. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of talk in the Brussels halls, and this is what every well-intentioned person will tell you that our presidency has come down to it, or some have only seen it as a real introduction to the German presidency, which is expected to solve most of the problems that have been accumulated or have not been solved for various reasons for our presidency, so let's just start from a multi-annual financial framework to everything else. Okay, some conversations are being conducted for our presidency, but the fact is and it would be both ambitious and too ambitious if it was brought for ours. We could have done a lot more, and in the end we got more or less involved in administrative affairs, and so they let us play a little bit with enlargement and talk about the region that we have something to say and we have what to offer, but it is not and should not be the only added value, the only policy, the only agenda of Croatia in the EU. It must not be because Croatia must first of all know what it wants, and I have said it many times and not only about this issue, but about most of the questions, we do not know where we are going, we do not know what we want, we do not know which direction we want to develop, and then, of course, we cannot even bring effective policies that would be in our service to meet these goals. I must also look back and a little disappointed that although this is the government's report that not a single word mentions the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency of the EU Council, and we have had success here and there, we have also had meetings from small goats to an interparliamentary conference on stability and economic activity of governance in this common foreign and security policy, common security and defence policy, so it somehow missed, it happened on the margins, unfortunately the pandemic prevented us from having other meetings, but unfortunately it was outside our hands. And I would also take this opportunity to repeat some questions to which I did not get clear answers on the board yesterday, which I think are interested and should be interested in the Croatian public and the interested public. First of all, the European Parliament refused to give its consent to a new and multi-annual financial framework without agreeing to reform the system of own resources. Is the agreement between the European Parliament and the EU Council in this area looking and what is the position of the Government on reforming the system of own resources? We've heard that the principle is at least the government is against new taxes, so it's actually for tax cuts, but in this particular case, what kind of attitude we're going to take, we should already know, so that's at the door. And also since, without the European Parliament, there is no multiannual financial framework and there is no EUR 20 billion of us, this is a question that is certainly of public interest. The Presidency of the EU Council, as I mentioned from Croatia, also took over from Germany, which, in fact, sent out between the lines, called on Member States to accept the possibility of amending the founding contracts in the context of the debate on the future of the EU. So on this conference on the future of the EU, which is so much to talk about. However, we also couldn't quite hear what the Croatian position on this should be, are we ready, how and in what extent we actually approach the change of the founding contracts. This is of course a broader issue than Croatia, but I want to prove to you plastically that we do not have an attitude on many issues. And no one can tell me that the President's neutrality is at stake, it's very well known that this neutrality can be bridged, I don't have to teach the prime minister who has so much experience both diplomatically and in the European Parliament how it is done, and that can be done with priorities, which, of course, we missed. Finally something that was supposed to be an extremely good story for Croatia, where we could get much better set up and get no more we didn't get, not much, we didn't get a bit, we got a zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2219	Next, a debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, distinguished representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2220	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed representatives and MPs, although the Croatian presidency was an absolute precedent, given the circumstances caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, I do not think this is an excuse for the opportunity we missed. As the youngest member of the EU, Croatia has been given a great opportunity to impose concrete issues on us on the European agenda and to ensure better visibility in European circles, but we have not used this well enough. In 6 months, we have failed to impose and focus on any topic that is important for the recovery of the Republic of Croatia, such as active participation in the creation of European funds, agricultural policy, cohesion policy or digitisation. Digitalisation which, we saw overnight, entered all member states at a large door and so on in the Republic of Croatia, which in that part lags deep behind developed EU members. The digitalisation in the Republic of Croatia appeared as a side effect of the coronal virus, a positive and welcome side effect, so we saw that everything that couldn't be done at once for years can happen within 24 hours. The RH is miles away from realising its digital potential, and I'm asking you, what's the excuse for that? We have top ITs, best young innovators, world-renowned companies such as the Istrian Infobip, and the Republic of Croatia is still at the very beginning of the EU according to the 2020 Economic and Social Digitalisation Index. Our young people have the best digital skills in the entire EU. The proportion of individuals 16 to 24 years of age. with developed digital skills is 97%, while the share aged 25 to 29. 92% and these are great figures, but what exactly did ruling in the past term make young people, that young people capitalize that knowledge? They were waiting for the pandemic to digitise education, public administration and production. One of the priorities of the Croatian Presidency was "Europe that is developing", which means in practice a balanced and sustainable development of all Member States. However, it is unserious to expect EU assistance in beautiful eyes. That's not how Europe works. The EU can and should be our strong ally, but the Republic of Croatia must do its homework, the Republic of Croatia must implement the necessary reforms, the Republic of Croatia must coordinate its national operational programme with the European programme and be removed from the EU's start after the European Funds are exploited. Unlike the state, Istria, and in particular Pula went not a step but 10 steps ahead. Pula has been declared a champion of digitisation throughout the Republic of Croatia this year and is an example of all other cities. And besides being an absolute leader in digitisation along with other Istrian cities, there is a vertices of transparency, but also of austerity. The EU Digital Europe programme has €8 billion at its disposal. We have a great opportunity to withdraw funds to finally digitise the Republic of Croatia and the digitization that is necessary to our reality. I call this way to the department of power to make themselves known, to stop acting lazy and ignoring and to catch up with the work. The Republic of Croatia is at the disposal of EUR 22 billion in the coming years and depends solely on us how much of this money we will use and invest in better, advanced and developed RH. Our children are self-educated for the digital society of the future system despite and achieve exceptional results. I hope that their enthusiasm will embarrass you and that you will finally begin to take advantage of the opportunities we are given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2221	The next debate is the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the prominent representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2222	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This topic today is also very important and important for our country and we are already in a whole series of replicas, and then in discussions on behalf of clubs we could see what priorities are, or what topics are important for individual policy options. In my debate, I will talk about what is important, of course, to the Parties Reformists and colleagues from HSLS, which is how through the system of realization of concrete life-important programmes and projects, which can be implemented through EU funds, directly influence the improvement of the quality of life of our citizens. I'll talk about the possibilities, the challenges and the problems the JLS face. Countys, cities and municipalities that were seriously led recognized the possibility of development and growth based precisely on EU funds. I talked about it yesterday, and I stressed that with Greece today the most centralised state in Europe, the largest number of things are being decided centrally, in which the environments will be invested, where they will invest, of course the state decides on it, according to its political and political priorities. In such a system, EU membership for JLS is extremely important because it has actually opened up the possibility that we are no longer fully dependent on government decisions, I am talking about both left and right governments because the principle has always been the same, the funds, projects and investments have always been pushed into certain counties, in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, into certain cities. Now, the very fact that we have become an EU member has opened up the possibility for cities, municipalities and counties to run, prepare, apply, run for their European projects and receive EU funding, regardless of political colors. The EU principle is really very correct, namely if you have a good project, if you have prepared it well, your project will pass. In this sense, the Varazdin County from which I come from data from the Ministry of Finance, the open budget is now the most successful county in the Republic of Croatia to attract European funds. Despite the fact that in the previous period it was so negotiated the envelope seemed so during this still current period. We did not have the possibility of direct investment in education infrastructure and direct investment in the infrastructure of general hospitals, however, we, as a county, managed to provide more than 820 million kuna from the EU precisely for projects for what the county authorities are, education and health care. So we built and restored over 20 schools, built and restored all hospitals in Varazdin County, started with the support of new hospitals of the Paliatical Centre and the Spinal Centre, restored homes of health, homes of pensioners and realised and a whole series of social projects, such as free meals for more than 3,000 children in schools who did not have that meal. I'm just listing this now just to get a little bit of an impression that this is not about abstract projects and some abstract money, but really more concrete life projects that raise the quality of life of our citizens and I'd say it's also an important demographic measure because built and arranged schools, available schools, available kindergartens, built and arranged hospitals, secure diet in schools are an important reason and can be one of the reasons why you don't leave Croatia. But this is exactly what our experience has enabled us to clearly recognise what the problem of funding European projects at regional and local level is and what changes in the state budget are necessary, of course, to ensure the maximum withdrawal of funds. Of course, within the public sector, local and regional self-government units have the highest absorption capacity. So this government has provided serious resources, a significant increase in resources, a significant increase in resources should certainly be commended, but in order for these funds to be withdrawn, we must be much, much better prepared and organised. The biggest obstacle to the absorption of funds is the domicile component that I was already talking about today in replicas, but since we talked about this whole past term, nothing happened. Let me briefly further clarify the importance and, of course, offer solutions. The original budget of the local self-government units is insufficient to close the domicile component, which I will best show just for the example of the Varazdin County. So, the original budget of the Varazdin County is 70 million kuna, and the value of the domicile component so far realised and agreed eu projects is 120 million kuna. So it is clear that without co-financing, we will not be able to realise or approve approved projects, let alone projects in preparation. So, we've secured the EU funds, there's a great and serious possibility that we can't withdraw the funds, and that's actually the theme of my today's exposure to warn that the funds exist, it's nice, wonderful, excellent, but we're not already a serious part of the funds being withdrawn because we weren't well prepared and organized, so let's take the chance now that in this mandate, these governments are correcting it. What we are proposing as one of the possible solutions is the establishment of a fund for co-financing of European projects. The Fund has already existed, namely, as a representative of the Reformist right in this high house proposed, the Government of Zoran Milanovic accepted it, but this government abolished it on the grounds that the domicile component would be co-financed directly from the budget, which, of course, when you do not have a clear source of funding led to instability and uncertainty of funding and that is what we have now. We think it would be extremely important to create a new, simple and accessible fund for projects of units of local and regional self-government. The fund can be easily charged. Namely, any project that is implemented is immediately paid to the central budget, so this VAT on projects that the local self-government units themselves designed, self-application, so when the project is implemented, this VAT does not go into the central budget, but also you have a continuous, permanent, clear, transparent charge of the fund and provided funds for the domestic components of all projects. In addition to this key project we have a whole series of operational problems, that's where I'll warn you of two. The first is to limit co-financing by project and by users, it does not need to elaborate much, it is harmful and leads directly to the failure of European funds instead of being used. And of course there's a model of this famous fastest finger, if some of you have ever worked and reported these European projects, it's especially important for those who have ambitions to run cities, counties in the next term, we have local elections, so it's a very current topic. We're like a country that's supposed to be a serious state being put into a situation that means that the one that applies in the first, second or third seconds, is just the principle of the fastest finger, so by the principle of lottery, and that's, of course, causing a whole series of problems. We are like the county and in a dispute with the former minister, the now respected representative of Mr Pavic, for that very reason because such a principle and such a way is absolutely non-transparent. So, to conclude, the funds are there, what we need now is to detect space for European projects, detect the capacities of units of local and regional self-government that can realise projects, ensure the level playing field of all units of local self-government in the realisation of projects and of course, and, above all, in the debate, the measures taken. I would especially stress this here to ensure the equal position of all units of local self-government because so far it has not been so. Our insistence on this government's programme has been entered by the region of the North, so far we have been more or less ignored, we sincerely hope, and this depends on the support of the Reformists that this will now change. And just to warn more preventively that we are going with income tax reduction measures which, of course, is absolutely supportive and welcoming. But taught by previous experiences, we only hope it's not the idea to go, so again on the burden of JLS. The reduction in income tax to absolutely, but of course the taxes that the state reduces should go financially to the burden of the state and that is the only correct and clear principle, which I believe the government will stick to in this tax reduction. Otherwise, all local budgets, JLS are hit by the coronary crisis, so on average they're 20% to 30% smaller, and any additional, additional impact of this kind on the JLS budgets would in fact make them completely impossible in the realisation of European projects. So, in conclusion, you've negotiated well, you've worked everything out in theory, and now I'm just asking you to create conditions and allow these funds to be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2223	Thank you. We are going to an individual debate, the first distinguished representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2224	First of all, it would correct Prime Minister Plenkovic, although he is not here, in his answer to my question he honored the Workers' Front that we cannot speak about the EU because we are against the EU, so I would only correct the incorrect assumption, meaning we are for autonomous policies, and not against the EU, it might be put as a counterpoint to what is being repeated here day by day, and that is the term of new sovereignty where we do not see from sovereignty, we see only mythology, we see only pyr, but we do not see what would be sovereign if you do not have the basic material living conditions of most people in Croatia in mind. So, first of all, I would say that the report has repeated itself several times and that, according to the prime minister, we have advocated the principle of solidarity, he says, the further achievement of convergence and cohesion, and the preservation of the internal market of equal opportunities for all members, as this report says. If, therefore, the plan is to be implemented, then I guess this should mean an effort to overcome inequality and set counterweights to the results produced by so-called. the internal market in which they compete economically unequally developed. We're competing in a game where we're amateurs with professionals under the same rules. Of course there is no solidarity, neither convergence, nor cohesion, of course we still have Europe two speeds, mass emigration from the periphery to the center, the shut down of production on the periphery and the more unfavourable economic structure and one of the lowest employment rates in Europe. Today when we talk about leaving Meggle from the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about leaving Kanfanar tobacco factory, when we talk about cancellations in Cross, when we talk about cancellations at Atlas Agency, when we talk about unfavourable working conditions in Kras, when we talk about shutting down shipbuilding and the death of Brodotrogir, which counts the last days, we can hardly talk about convergence. But of course we'll read all about it in these reports. So let's remind ourselves that there are statistical or material indicators, concrete material indicators that give us the right to this dramatic assessment. In 2019, the EU trade deficit amounted to around 71 billion kuna, which means that it increased by 6% compared to 2018, these are material indicators that give us the right to conclude that EU funds do not benefit from this convergence, do not match what the tasks of such reports and such programmes are. Only 15% of our entrepreneurs export. The drastic situation is also the information that gives you a good illustration of where we are, that in the 5th month of last year we had one of the largest industrial production declines in the EU. So it is evident that, with these EU funds in this financial perspective, we are not making a positive stock exchange balance at all, although there is a deterioration, not improvement. If we're talking about convergence, maybe this was about the convergence of our educated people going to rich countries, so that's where they stay to work and live. 14% of the working-age population has been evicted, perhaps such convergence is here it is. Of course, it is not the result of some incompetence that could be interpreted as the legitimacy of rulings who fail to do what they have done for themselves, but it is also an expression from increasingly unfavourable economic structures and the fact that small and medium enterprises that apostrophe and a good part of the opposition here are not and cannot be the bearer of growth, neither exports nor the creation of excess added value. So, we used to produce a few times more in all categories of production. Food, just to mention one thing, one thing. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2225	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2226	Thank you. My colleague Peović, in your discussion you referred to the often mentioned sovereignty, but we have had opportunities over the past few days to listen a lot about so-called. New Sovereignism, so I'm curious about what your thinking is about, do you see any difference or do you think it has, that this, as a concept, has content at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2227	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2228	I mean, it's a classic term with no content to say in our profession that we share, the markers without being marked. So, new sovereignty is an empty term and an empty set that means absolutely nothing, it fills with some kind of mythology and meanings that the right hand would like to enter into that concept, but that concept in its character does not contain any content. The content that this concept should contain if anything, these are material indicators, materials the living conditions of most of Croatia, which are as everyone knows who sees this worse and worse. So what are we talking about when we talk about solidarity, convergence, cohesion, what are we talking about when we talk about new sovereignty, nothing we need really material indicators to look at, do an analysis and see what we really want to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2229	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2230	Dear MPs I would ask you if you could answer one question. You mentioned the deficit in EU trade with goods several times today. Do you perhaps have any information in which area, which, in fact, produces you at least this or the most, and do you have any information about it or any statistical data on which branch we lose the most?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2231	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2232	So last year, this decline in industrial production was, of course, the most related to the shutting down of the oil, so this is the indicator that plays the most role in this statistics, and as far as this trade deficit is concerned, we lose everywhere in all possible segments, but mostly in food production. So food production is something that has also apostrophe of this government as what we have to fix, but only when we look at 30, 40 years ago how much milk we've produced more, how much we've had more production in livestock, in agriculture. So almost all the indicators have been cut in half. So when we talk about this trade balance, then really this new sovereignty comes in a completely different context and quite another meaning gets if we just look at the statistics of food production. But the biggest problem is actually the production of these highly sophisticated products like the ship where we don't actually have a high added value anymore. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2233	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2234	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, unfortunately there is none of the representatives of the executive government here, and we would very much like to receive answers to some of the questions, especially those concerning the modality of using the funds that are intended for us and for the next entire financial perspective, but also from the recovery fund within the Next Generation. So we know that this money for the Croatian economy will be, but also for society more necessary than ever, but we all also know that these funds are not obtained without the preconditions and without the obligations that the states have to make. The information we have from Brussels suggests that most of the Member States have already sent their partnership agreements on the basis of the signing of the partnership agreements can only start using the funds, and on the other hand Croatia has not yet done so and we do not know whether we have started working on a partnership agreement, and if we do not know why this is being kept secret and why this Parliament is not informed about it. We have also not yet made another prerequisite for this, and this adoption of the National Development Strategy. We did not get a concrete answer to the question at which stage the National Development Strategy is being developed, which only then should units of regional self-government, but also local self-governments do their own strategies on which to withdraw money from both the recovery fund and from the total ESI, ESI funds for the next financial perspective. What else does it matter to us? What's important is that we don't also know at which stage is the production of operational programs, we don't know how many operational programs we're going to have this time. Why does it matter? Because last time, the production of operational programmes at high speed led, for example, to the fact that the food sector or the food industry sector fell out of programming because the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy did not agree on who would put them in which operational programme. So we don't want that to happen again. If it started with the production of operational programs I ask where is the consultation process? Therefore, the European Commission clearly says that the consultation processes must begin at the earliest possible stage of the development of operational programmes in order to meet the needs on the ground, because the European funds must first follow the principle of subsidiarity, so there must be some additional means to develop and address the needs where they occur at local and regional level. It would also point out that I hope that a change in the structure of the implementation, implementation of EU funds and all those bodies participating in the implementation will be considered. I mean, first of all, level 1 intermediate bodies and level 2 intermediate bodies. When I hand over my members of the EU funds to them, then I just show them the scheme of what the schedule of those intermediate bodies of level 1 and level 2 bodies looks like, that they are immediately aware that this cannot function in coordination between such a large number of bodies. The second thing is that the intermediate bodies of level 2 have completely unequal criteria for the evaluation of the acceptability of certain costs and that this creates an incredible amount of confusion among end-users. For example, we can also say that our level 2 intermediate bodies have publicly boasted that they are assessing their success by how much correction they have fired on end-users, and that is indeed something they are evaluating themselves by. We have an extremely large number of adjustments and this indicates that our level 2 intermediate bodies do not help end-users to solve the implementation problems they have but literally ex post give them penalties. These penalties are sometimes the heights to question in general the bankruptcy of certain small municipalities or small business entities. We don't need to talk about the use of the funds, we have 37% of the funds from this allocation, or this financial perspective that's been paid, 37%. So, it's the end of 2020, not to mention, for example, that the evaluation of projects from the European Social Fund, and that goes to you by former Minister Pavić, is sometimes up to 600 days, as has now been the case with the Intermediate Body of Level 2 of the National Civil Society Development Act, where the thematic networks for what reason have waited two years for the budgetary cleaning phase to happen at all. Okay. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]] Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2235	We have two replicas, first respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2236	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bencic's. There's been a lot of exposure, so I'll try to replicate it in a minute and give at least some basic information. A few... process on the partnership agreement was with the European Commission, they had only just begun and then the crown happened. The crown took place, as well as a national development strategy that was in the high stage of preparation at the time was due to enter the beginning of the 4th month into a public debate and came here to the Parliament at that time to accept the situation which would be with the Recovery and Coronal Fund, it is in a high stage of preparation and I believe that colleague Tramiščak will successfully end. In addition, we have the Law on the institutional framework, the Law on capacity to strengthen the institutional framework, yes, there are many things to be fixed, but the issue of administrative capacity for us in... is missing a thousand people that we have these capacities and that is why we have also proposed the Law on Strengthening Institutional Capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2237	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2238	Well, we still didn't get an answer as to how many operational programmes we're going to have, which is the programming phase, and when I asked about the consultation processes, I didn't mean the consultation process with the European Commission, which means that we're all countries in the process, some have already moved... Yes, so they must be finished and handed over by the end of the year. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have until the end of the year to hand over the operational programs did not start the process. People, operational programs are done per year, a year and a half to really get those goals and performance indicators that really need to be specified so they can use the funds, but that they can follow their effects afterwards. We made a mistake last time. I'm afraid this time it's going to be worse, and I'm even more afraid because this time we have more resources and we're wondering what's going to be the effect. The effects of this financial perspective are such that most of the money from the European Social Fund and the PKK The Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion went to the largest cities, not those regions that needed it most. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2239	The next replica is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2240	Well, here I would like to ask my colleague Bencic a question since we really have a colleague here who knows a lot about it, to explain a little more to us how much capacity we have at all, so do we have enough to develop this research and scientific complex that would withdraw that software money, how much can we talk through eu funds about any kind of development, if we also consider the amount of resources available to us and the structural character of these funds, or what can we apply for? And if we are talking about some equality in the EU, can we nevertheless apostrophe some form of inequality if we consider that some countries are also using rebate, less paying in the EU what is the relationship between the centre and the periphery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2241	I'll be happy to answer that. Horizon 2020 that we had in this location is a Union programme, it does not belong to this part that is intended as an allocation exclusively to Croatia, but that it is extremely competitive and generally gets those consortiums which are headed by the strongest scientific institutions in the EU. However, I want to say something about inequality, this inequality in the use of funds does not exist only between the countries of the centre and the countries of the periphery but also in Croatia exists at the level between strong centres and those that are less developed. So, for example, the largest number of competitions we had were competitions in which, for example, someone from Zagreb competed with someone from Antunovac or with someone from Bedekovčina, so the municipalities or legal entities located in such less developed regions have less capacity, and they are expected to compete under the same conditions for funds with those far more developed and have far more capacity to register Okay. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2242	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2243	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When Croatia formed its four pillars to present itself in the presidency, I am pleased to have the minister back here because I am a linguist and here is a little warning, I think you said the precedent four times today. In fact, from one train to another, you're hoping to have a successful stay, and so is Mr. Bacic, so some here resent how they speak what language and at least the minister might learn that we've been chairing. Namely, I will go back, so we chose four topics, we chose four topics that sounded very poetic and today our old-new prime minister told us what it meant for Croatia that protects, which connects, which is influential Europe and Croatia that is developing. What saddens us here was both fellow Bencic and future things, so if milk is not to be regretted, it should be seen which processes were and how these topics were chosen when we were in Croatia at the end of 2019, where CROSOL did research through Ipsos which citizens would see as the topics of Croatia that would preside. So, for the first time, citizens cited the fight against corruption, as a second human rights, as a third climate change and as a fourth management of migration. What Croatia skipped, and she skipped one topic you know that we were trio whether it was the Finnish, Croatian, German trio, so usually it is except that Croatia was unfortunately hit by the crust and had to do as countries often do, a mountain of invisible bureaucratic work, ordinary citizens uninteresting. But usually there's also some tradition that the country that inherits the other takes over some topics. Croatia did not take the key topic, and important for Croatia, and now Germany is taking over, so we left a vacuum. And if you look at just a report that is the values and priorities of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, she pointed out that this is gender equality and the fight against violence against women, as well as the ratification of the Istanbul Convention in the EU, whether or not some colleagues would have to be against the EU as such. In view of the very growth of violence and in the crown itself, and I guess the women are 51% in Croatia and here in this famous home in 1917 our writer Marija Jurić Zagorka said that she did not understand why the people are divided into men and women are not divided when they are given duties, why are they shared when they are given rights, so from the '17 I could ask the same question, why could Croatia use one advantage she had, this experience of war and women who have survived war violence did not at least choose that topic? She chose a topic in general during the presidency, which is women in the labour market at a conference where no woman in civil society spoke. So, that disrespecting the role of citizens in deciding topics, disrespecting citizens when they need to participate, disrespecting a whole wide spectrum such as women. Will it happen again to us that women in this recovery plan have not heard today or the letters about it, will there be something in the recovery plan regarding women, not only women and abused and violence against women, you have seen, we have all witnessed that during the crown women were indeed heroines on the first line of defense, as well as beautiful military terminology said, were doctors and nurses, were in the stores at the registers, so how can it happen in some program and plan, and also in the government programme we haven't even heard that? It can happen because she passed the government, and that's this one, so here I'm pleading here, five years has not adopted a national strategy on gender equality. If you don't have your own national strategy for five years, and we know why all the obstacles to the same Istanbul, and we've seen that really men don't go to us, bearding men in women's toilets. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2244	The first replica and distinguished representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2245	Fellow Boris, you were on the cover of "Time" magazine in time as one of the 100 most influential feminists in the world. I am interested in watching the Croatian presidency and the way Croatia reacted during that presidency or did not respond to moves in Poland, for example, which clearly pushed the withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention, what are these days being talked about, how would you assess our presidency from this perspective?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2246	So the first correction,... the wrong quote, is not "Time" magazine but "Forbes", I wish I was among the 10 richest women on Forbes's list, I'm just the seventh feminist in the world, but I think that for feminists we don't like these hierarchical relationships, we prefer and here was the issue of what's vertical, which is horizontal. I would like to say that it is embarrassing for Croatia, which has been through the government, very difficult, but with the support of the same civil society that protested against Istanbul that it was parallel to my picture with Mr Plenkovic, so one of them wrote Plenkovic works for Rada Boric, while others wrote Rada Boric works for Plenkovic. I think we all worked at that time to protect women from violence and that's what's most dominant and important in the Istanbul Convention. And it is a shame that Croatia has done such a failure not only in Poland but also in Hungary around human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2247	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2248	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric. I absolutely agree with you that we could use the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council more wisely and that what you said that we could impose a theme on women, even the topic, which is a major problem which the EU has recognized and that is violence against women. So much more that we have made a certain step, even after 20 years of the Homeland War, for victims who have suffered the trauma of sexual abuse, society has admitted that the victims and gave them such compensation thanks to then Minister Predrag Matic, the European Community, as well as the wider. And right through this space we could use as a young country that ratified the Istanbul Convention to exchange experiences to impose our problems and ask for help through the exchange of experiences as effectively as possible in everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2249	The reply to the replica is a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2250	So if I could add that it really grieves, there was an opportunity to deal with the subject as there were other opportunities. I also think it is embarrassing that the Croatian presidency then did not mark the 75th anniversary of the victory over fascism in Europe. So that's something you're setting an example of because Croatia has nothing to be ashamed of that it was on the side of World War II's victory. Also, here is enough today to see what happened at the Museum of Contemporary Art where art works that are down in the garage and an excellent artist, rewarded in the world today, are overwhelmed by a sign they should be ashamed of. What is saddening is that Germany has re-elected the topic of gender equality for its presidency, so that Croatia could have been just that one of the corners, especially that we have excellent experience. It's embarrassing that the Italian Foreign Ministry is calling me to say that I'm a mediator in conflicts. And here we don't use the subject of women and post wars. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2251	Next individual debate, distinguished MP Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2252	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this Presidency of the EU Council regarding Croatia has indeed been in one of the most challenging euphemist times for the EU and for the whole world. A little while when I see what kind of vision and slogans Croatia has been going to this historic EU Council presidency, we can make a little joke about how it ended in the end. Of course, the circumstances were completely out of control of Croatia, but we can now discuss how Croatia managed to do so. 4 pillars or priorities of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council were a developing Europe, and during the crown of the crisis, I think this is a historic decline in GDP at EU level, on the other hand of a Europe that connects, and we have seen a fully unrelated EU during the root of the crisis, and I will remind you of the bans on the export of respirators from one member of the EU to other members of the EU of such things that were unimaginable. So, it threw itself out the window of the EU common market, threw itself out the window of an EU idea that was actually created after the war to avoid such war conflicts in Europe as the Second World War. Solidarity has been avoided, the brotherhood has escaped, all of it has been thrown out the window and it has started to function within the EU each to manage for itself. And in this sense, while Croatia chaired the EU Council, I do not see that it has managed to reverse such a field. Of course, Croatia is one of the smallest EU member states and may not have been able to influence the EU's behaviour as one, as one entity in solidarity in such a crisis. We also see at the last summit what was happening and how some non-members broke, who were against going with this latest 1800 billion package. There has been some agreement, however, but it is clear that we have 2 in fact EU, that we have EU cores and that we have EU peripherals. The third priority was Europe that protects and we saw during the Presidency of the EU and the Council of the EU that Europe unfortunately failed to protect its citizens, or the EU member states, to do so. Interestingly in Eastern Europe, EU member states have done this better than in the rule of EU member states in Western Europe. Is there, as much as there is public health and perhaps some of the things in the former systems that have actually helped to better cope with EU members from Eastern Europe let's say from Central Eastern Europe so that we can also put Croatia into this. Influenced Europe and it is being debated because I do not see that the impact of Europe has increased precisely during the Presidency of the EU Council by some of Croatia, however, some might say that it has fallen since Europe is divided that its international impact is actually smaller. Also a strong Europe, so what was the official slogan was a strong Europe in a world full of challenges, if we got a world full of challenges in those 6 months. Such a world full of challenges that no one could dream of, whether Europe came out stronger from it, I could not quite agree with that, although because a lot of it has been long since the EU has managed to find a common language at all, some are now steps made with those 1800 billion, they have been thrown the same way through the window of orthodoxy about EU borrowing, about the borrowing of EU members, all of which are suddenly raising credits because they are aware that otherwise this liquidity crisis cannot be solved. And lastly, I think there is also a lot to say here about some of the things in this report that I think are completely unnecessary, from what everything at the ceremony was played and sang and in which hall, in which the EU institution building, which I am not sure is at all suitable for such a report. However, I would say of these legislative initiatives, a lot of them from the railway package, and I would give an example that we are sometimes more Catholic than the Pope when we follow EU rules on the free market, so let's say, for example, the Holding Company both France and Germany and Italy, and Croatia is not because it is more Catholic than the Pope as far as EU rules are concerned. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2253	We have replicas. Dear Representative Marko Pavić, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2254	Thank you very much. I expected from you from my individual fashion debate more about Green Dealu, but I will cover it in my individual debate. What I was about to say here, the Europe that protects, yes, we are protecting ourselves from the crown of the virus, Croatia has also shown its action. The developing Europe could not agree on a multi-annual financial framework of 1000 billion, and now we have agreed on a recovery plan and a multi-annual financial framework of EUR 1800 billion. Europe that connects, the beginning of a crisis that has never been recorded in the history of the EU, the national states have retreated, they have closed the borders but then they realize that they have to open up, meaning co-operate with a screw that is influential, so I would just say that all statesmen have praised the world's adoption of the package including the Dalai Lama, which is immediately at 6 a.m. I think urgently after adoption Therefore, it says enough how powerful the EU remains. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2255	The next replica, the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2256	We can now discuss how much influence the Republic of Croatia has had and how much its presidency has been assessed in the first place, there are, of course, assessments that you mention, I can also mention some assessments of some independent media, analysts who have misjudged the EU Council Presidency. We can also discuss whether the Republic of Croatia could impose some topics, whether it was too passive, whether the Zagreb Summit also achieved the goals it was meant to achieve, of course it was the line, not the physical way it was imagined. It seems to me that, in this sense, the EU remains very divided during the crisis and that the Republic of Croatia has failed to reconcile it. The question could have been given its size and strength, but I say when you have situations that when you look in the Netherlands, in Scandinavia, in Great Britain, so many cases of coronary virus and the way they acted, on the other hand, in Eastern Europe, on the third hand And as it was debated about loans then we see that [[Intruder: Time]] There was no solidarity. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2257	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2258	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Tomašević, I was surprised that for five minutes, you were so negative about this report and, in general, according to the presidency. Here is what counterpart Pavić mentioned, at least I thought you might praise or a word of two guidelines for Green Deal and that you might have liked it in the new European Commission plan and the future of the EU itself. Two short questions, from all that you've made negative, is your opinion then that we need to get out of the EU, that we have no use for it and that it's for nothing? And the second question is also very short, do you see at least something positive in this report and in general on the Presidency of the European Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2259	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2260	Yeah, well, let's say for Green Deal, I think it's an opportunity. So, EUR 1800 billion is indeed if we are to program it properly, and that is, our decision, the decision of all EU Member States, can indeed lead to the greatest transformation of the European economy in the history of Europe, and it is high time to do so, not only from the perspective of environmental protection but also from the perspective of labour rights, the reduction of inequalities within Member States and among Member States. From that perspective, I can say that this is an opportunity and I am glad that this package was finally approved. I say, orthodoxies about the borrowing of the EU and EU member states were excessively thrown out of the window when this crisis came and that's something I can say is positive. But if you expect the opposition to praise only the reports that are coming, I will remind you that you have also told the press that they are overly critical instead of focusing to all that is good and to praise the media Presidency of the EU Council by the Republic of Croatia, if so [[Intruder: Time]] You expect from the opposition, as well as from the media, you won't get it, we'll always criticise it, but we'll commend it. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2261	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2262	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's before the part that I said about the presidency, I'd like to look back only, I'm sorry that there is no colleague Mrak-Taritash and what my colleague Bencic said, in order to pay off the European funds, you need to contract them first. This government found 9% of the contract and 1% of the payout. In the last 4 months alone, we have agreed 10% points, from 88% to 98%, billions of euros in the last 4 months, 9% of the SDP government in 4. And the citizens in the elections made it clear who they trusted. As for the operational programs themselves, we've been waiting to see the effects of this entire package, let's see what thematic concentrations are, let's see how far it goes for Green Delal, how much it goes for Smart Croatia, let's see how much money we're going to invest, how much we have to co-finance, and I'm glad that's left at 15%. When it comes back to the presidency, I congratulate my former colleague Grlic-Radman once again, I think the presidency is excellently done, the Zagreb Summit is a great success. The fact that a small Republic of Croatia has opposed Macron and has led to a new negotiating methodology, and not just us, the prime ministers also say, in northern Macedonia and Albania. And I'd like to go back to the Green Deal. When we had this entire college commissioner, I remember that and there was just a debate about the future Green Dealu. If we didn't have the crowns today, we'd be actually just discussing it. And then in my intervention, I pointed out that exactly, and that's where we go back to that "influent Europe", the total CO2 emissions of the entire EU is something about 10% even above, transport is, so air transport exists by, which means that we reduce CO2 emissions across Europe in half and stop flying, we solve 5% to 6% of the world's problem. China, India and the United States account for 50% of the CO2 emissions, and that is why Europe must be the leader, it must be aggressively imposed on its partners, and it must be the leader. That is why I am pleased that the thematic concentration of 30% cohesion that must be left in Green Europe remains. How do different political groups view it? We and you are in different positions as well, opposition and all, but from the IPP we see this or our families, we view this as an opportunity to create new jobs that will be better paid, which will ensure that young people stay in the Republic, and also to protect our, our beauty of the Republic. Therefore, Green Deal will be a great opportunity for Croatia, the programming of this whole package will also begin, and we will also appreciate all your contributions because I don't think what the SDP Government did to us should happen to us, where we now according to the programmes that they did in 2013 and '14. We drive, we have to learn mistakes from that period. It would also return to two more packages as regards the presidency itself, which is CRI 1 and CRI Plus. Corona Response... 1 and 2 which enabled the flexibility of EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right on the Croatian initiative and that we were able to get 400m euros to redistribute precisely to fight the crown. What all the masks in the health system, the respirators we bought, came from China, were paid by EU funds. 150m euros went to the Employment Service for Measures, too, over a billion kunas of citizens and microcredit craftsmen. The second major item in the future... There will be research and development, 25% of thematic concentration and there is also an opportunity to be green and smart, develop new technologies, invest STEM, a good part of the projects we have already written in the Government's programme, read, and I believe that together we will be able to program the future 10 years of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2263	We have two replicas. First distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2264	Thank you. Dear Representative, as I mentioned earlier, of course we are satisfied with both the Green Deal and the opportunities he offers, but one of the preconditions that we use at all is the development of a national development strategy that you said might be half over, if I understand you correctly. I am now asking you to tell us here, is it true that the Ministry of Regional Development is paying 32 million kuna for the development of the national development strategy to the World Bank, but not for the overall development of the strategy, but for the development of analytical bases. I would also ask you, you may have information given that you were in the executive office, how much further did the PR contracts cost with the national strategy promotion agencies that we still don't have on the tables today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2265	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2266	Thank you very much. The national strategy, the development strategy is at a high stage and this performance, i.e. the high stage, we reworked it after Covid was, I believe that colleague Ferenschak will put it in public debate very quickly, after that he will come to the government and here to the Parliament. Yes, the World Bank has helped in the whole process of this preparation, it was a partner, it's nothing weird and nothing new. It has also helped bring European priorities into line and has been a partner throughout the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2267	The next replica is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2268	Okay, what I'm interested in is, so you said, this is a new opportunity for Croatia, for new jobs, how can we comment if we have the lowest employment, one of the lowest jobs in the EU, so we haven't used EU funds in the previous period to increase employment. One problem is the amount of money, so these funds don't even reach the annual amount of the pre-crisis 2008 investment, and the other is the structure of the money. Therefore, the character of support which is unable to invest in commercial activities that would disrupt or threaten, so the competition for state aid is limited by this EU operating contract. So we finally have an expression meaning increasingly unfavourable economic structures and the fact that in fact these EU funds can't change the direction in which we're going. growth and exports. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2269	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2270	Thank you very much. I am sorry, colleague Peovic, that you did not see what the EU funds are because they have already done in this envelope in terms of employment. 7.5 billion kuna of investment mandate already passed by the government in employment, 110 thousand jobs, I would like to remind only of a project like Zaželi, 6 thousand women employed in rural areas, low qualifications that help over 30,000 households. The measures of active employment policy, self-employment we have raised to 100 thousand kuna, in the Government's program is raising to 130 thousand kuna, so every young person who wants to do an entrepreneurial venture, will be able to do it, gets 130 thousand kuna, which is more than that, in Great Britain where the support of 2 thousand pounds is. So I'm sorry that you haven't seen the impact of EU funds on the development of employment by now, and for the next financial envelope, we said we'd invest 10 billion kuna in employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2271	The next replica of MP Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2272	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić, you boast that you have withdrawn, withdrawn more funds from EU funds than our Government, but I remind you that we have left you projects and resolved property-legal relations for veteran centres in Sinj, Petrinja, Sibenik and Daruvar, and have so far failed to realise these projects from the European Operational Fund Competitiveness and Cohesion in which 20 million euros have been secured. You want to answer me, why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2273	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry that someone on the SDP's side is saying that, you left us chaos, you left us only 9% of the contract and 1% of the payment of the funds. We are now at 98% of the payout, 30% of the contract, the OPC, or the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion is at 100, I think 8% of already agreed, the first veteran centres we signed in Vukovar, they will go on. Therefore, the veteran centres and that the European funds help Croatia and develop Croatia and the Pelješki bridge and 1.7 billion kuna hospitals, schools, roads, and we planned all this in the future envelope, 2 billion kuna for STEM Croatia, 25 billion kuna for research and development, 30 billion kuna for regional development. Therefore, read the program also government a good part of the projects there is already written.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2274	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2275	Well, for starters, I was already speaking in my own debate, as well as how Croatia will be set up to spend this money will depend on whether it will be for local development, whether this new value will remain in Croatia or not. From that perspective, I would again say that Croatia should not be more Catholic than the Pope from the perspective of economic liberalisation within the EU because it has now seen who we know from before, that it is not a single common market where countries are not economic actors, but are the only economic actors on the market individuals and businesses. It is clear that every country also runs a protectionist economic policy. From this perspective, green public procurement is an opportunity for Croatia to prioritise the local development of agriculture and to favour the production of components for renewable energy sources and in Croatia, such as Portugal 5 years ago and even 10 years ago. So from that perspective, you have to watch how we spend it and I'd like you to excuse me, Mr. Pavic. Agent Pavic just reminded me that you didn't respond to my colleague. [[Intruder: Time.]] 32 million kuna of the World Bank whether or not paid and required strategy and development agencies? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2276	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2277	Thank you very much. My colleague, the green public procurement I think is, that it will be, that knowing Minister Coric will certainly be a priority in his further work. The question also of Green Deal, the question of investment in all of this, I think it's important, I think we need to find good examples, learn from this perspective, this was our first lesson in it, we need to learn about structure and simplify procedures and be less papal than the Pope. Fast procedures, building capacity, but the full value of European Funds investment can only be seen after 2 envelopes. I have personally convinced myself, and by visiting my fellow ministers, I have seen how they are connected, I have seen how, in particular, innovative projects concerning green development are well connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2278	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2279	Thank you. So I have to say that I am already bored to hear from the ranks of the HDZ former ministers, and the current parliamentary deputies that the SDP is guilty of Croatia starting to withdraw funds from the EU funds. So we're about to start with 36% of the funds paid. No, Mr Pavic did not blame you, the SDP has only one year to prepare operational programmes, you have had four years to change them, you were unable to do so, not because you may not have been able to, but because the European Commission has assessed that you have not provided enough, therefore withdrawing funds, implementation of projects and that it is therefore not possible to change operational programmes. That's not what the stories said, and our most active Europarliamentary Biljana Borzan personally wrote to the European Commission that for the installation project, lifts in multi-state buildings are changing the operational programme and she got the answer I just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2280	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2281	Thank you very much. Let's go back to numbers. 4 years of your government's 9% deal, 4 months of HDZ government 10% points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2282	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2283	A colleague of Pavić's self-satisfaction with the fact that we have 22 billion Euros at our disposal over the next 7 years will not simply lead us anywhere. What we need to do is start working, as soon as possible, the perspective starts with January 1, 2021, and to a very specific question to the prime minister this morning when the National Development Strategy, as he said, is going to come out of isolation, we haven't got an answer. So, please run some processes. This is a key prerequisite, and in 2018, when you were working on the foundations for it, you said that this strategy was the basis for budget planning and programming of EU funds after 2020. And it's clear to all of us as a white day, but you're still going to talk for 3 months about what the European Commission has made available for us, instead of dealing with how we're going to make what's at our disposal. put it in your favor. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2284	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2285	Thank you very much. First of all, I am sorry that you do not understand the concept of a National Development Strategy that is not only about EU funds but is also about the wider 10-year development. The second was to go to a public debate or parliamentary procedure in April for Covid's sake we moved it, Minister Tramišak I believe that it will be the first thing on the agenda just to bring that strategy that is in the high stage of completion here in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2286	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2287	Thank you very much. In fact, I wanted to look back at your presentation, and in the context of the replicas you receive from the position of that part of this assembly that most often uses these reports to demonstrate a certain Euroscepticism or attack or suggest that something in your EU membership is not good and does not offer any clear alternative. There is no doubt that Croatia's EU membership, with the skills of the work of the government in which you participated, has really reborn Croatia in each of its activities. There are almost no units of local self-government that have no multimillion-dollar investment with the support of the European Funds, we build municipal infrastructure, transport infrastructure, we build railways, we build kindergartens, we actually build business halls, we buy new technologies in each, absolutely in every segment of Croatia, we go big steps forward. And this package of EUR 22 billion will only speed it up And it'll only contribute more to it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2288	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2289	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to visit Croatia over the entire term several times. I saw that the whole of Croatia is a big construction site. From the Pelješko bridge down in the south, Dubrovnik Airport, Split, road routes, schools, hospitals, various services, soft projects, civil society which is there, is only I have information for STEM projects over 200 million kuna applications in the first day of application. What is, since you come from the north, many projects there are also developed during the government. I have information that tomorrow will be the opening of an entrepreneurial incubator with you in Krapina, that it will be opened by President Milanovic, who hitched off when he was prime minister, so we say very clearly that the HDZ Government has given a boost to the development of EU funds and that we also did not look at party membership in development because and even development is crucial to us. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2290	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will speak in the context of the report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. Many times mentioned the Covida-19 epidemic, the activities of the EPSCO Council, so the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council, and I will remind you that Croatia has already organised a video conference on the Covida-19 epidemic on 7 February, and we had the first Coronavirus case in Croatia on 25 February. In early June, a scientific conference was organised in the context of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council entitled Better Future of Healthy Ageing 2020. Thematically, this conference contributed to the implementation of the first two strategic objectives of the EU Council Presidency, which is a Europe that is growing uniformly, inclusively and sustainablely, and a Europe that connects. The conference presents scientific knowledge related to the ageing of biological systems, through topics of regenerative medicine, neuroscience, clinical medicine and other areas of medicine, with an emphasis on personalised and integrated medicine. The impact of smart technologies on ecosystems adapted to older people has been demonstrated, by encouraging discussions on increasing innovation and environmental solutions adapted to age. Finally, issues of ageing and sustainability of the health system at different levels have been analysed, from institutional, regional and state to EU level. It was adopted at a Policy Paper conference to be installed in Green Paper on aging, which represents an extra-legislative initiative under the 600 priorities of the new EU Commission work programme called New EU Incentives to Democracy. In this policy, Paper encourages a debate within the EU Commission on whether it is necessary to agree at EU level on the creation of pan-European policies that will define a minimum standard of social care and health care for the elderly of all European citizens, which includes the creation of a specific fund that can help reduce inequalities across different age groups and different EU Member States. I think this is extremely important, especially in the context of the two-dozen EU speech. It is also encouraged to discuss whether, in light of the Covid-19 epidemic, which has a particularly high mortality rate among older people, and especially among those who have custody and patients at EU level, it is necessary to agree on the creation of pan-European policies that can ensure better coordination, rapid response among EU Member States, on the principle of solidarity and subsidiarity in emergency situations, respecting the specific needs of each EU Member State. The reason for calling the conference was to encourage research, implementation and to increase innovation for the management of the health and well-being of the elderly, and we could put it all in the context of a pandemic where we had to react quickly and in this rapid public health response create innovation, adapt and cooperate with older people. Our history and legacy Dr. Andrija Printar is proof that Croatia is of great importance in the world health community. And I will therefore conclude by his words that the issue of national health and the work for its improvement should be addressed by all, regardless of whether they are economically weaker or stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2292	Okay, we've got two replicas. First of all, she's a respected representative of Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2293	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, you spoke most of your debate about older people. We know that the elderly are the most affected by the Covida-19 epidemic, they couldn't move, they couldn't leave their homes, so I wonder if Croatia can offer some new, better model health care for elderly people?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2294	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2295	Dear colleague Maximchuk, you've said well. The vast majority of the dead of the coronary virus, from the consequences of the coronary virus infection in the Republic of Croatia, and also at global level, are people of older age, and this physical distance has led to social isolation that can result in the formation of a number of mental symptoms. I think that the public health system has shown its quality, but it needs to be improved in the announced health reform, and it is very important to take care of the development of preventive programmes and to ensure social conditions affecting the health and well-being of elderly people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2296	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2297	Thank you. Dear fellow Cellic, as an expert in the field of psychiatry, I wonder how you see the situation of a protégé in retirement homes that for months can't go beyond the circle of the retirement home itself, and how does this reflect their mental health as well as the lawyer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2298	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2299	Dear Representative Nadj, thank you for that question. Homes for older people who do not have green areas are simply in a very awkward position. We all adapt to new normal and definitely looking for quality programs where professional services that work with elderly people who are located in homes have developed even online different programs, type of exercise. But what is objective, which you yourself mentioned, is the inability of physical contact with close family members who can definitely lead to certain mental difficulties that are first manifested with insomnia, and then with different symptoms coming from the anxiety circle and the depressed circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2300	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2301	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We heard today's Report on an extraordinary meeting of the European Council at which Croatia was truly extremely successful, which was reported by the Prime Minister, we have indeed received a detailed and exhausted insight. In today's united debate, I would like to refer to the report on the activities and results of the EU Council Presidency. I would like to congratulate our minister and the entire team here at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, in particular, on a truly well-done job. Because only those who participated in this demanding work know how much effort and how much knowledge and skill and patience this undertaking required. Although it could have been heard from some colleagues in the opposition here, I am truly sorry that the presidency is being handled and reduced to just some administrative and bureaucratic skills, I would have responded, and if that were the case, I am really proud of how we have successfully done it. That is why I would like to stress that Croatia has indeed been at the level of its task and has done a great job of doing this presidency in our truly unseen conditions. We were faced with how and you know the migration pressures, we're all familiar, then we're faced with the pandemic and then unfortunately with a major earthquake. I would just point out one thing here, if I could come back I would just, the minister had already said something about it, that we were only one of the only roles of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that we have taken over, and we never should have done it before, nor were we in a position, nor were we of course thank God we shouldn't have, I will say something about repatriation, a repatriation that was imposed on us as a need and that we have spent through the joint consular efforts that the Presidency co-ordinated with the European External Action Service and, as the minister has already mentioned 630,000 citizens of the EU have certainly been returned to their homes during this crisis. And therefore, given the special circumstances of our presidency, we can indeed say that we have achieved exceptional, exceptional results. No matter what we've heard here, I'm very sorry that they don't respect the details. Given the circumstances that we unfortunately have missed, I am very sorry, to present our Croatia, our country and its rich cultural heritage to a number of guests from the Member States who, unfortunately, could not come in the light of the circumstances. We literally had to change our way of working overnight and adapt to new realities and I assure you colleagues and colleagues because I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs myself to really put myself in our position, somehow we acted under impossible conditions and in impossible circumstances, and despite everything, we can be proud that in such difficult circumstances we have achieved the most important goals that we ourselves have set out. It is therefore necessary to reiterate that, in such circumstances, we have truly achieved the maximum possible. Croatia has presented itself as reliable and capable of the biggest challenges. And that is why, Mr. Minister, I would like to congratulate you personally once again, and I would like to congratulate the entire Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs on the tremendous effort made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2302	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, distinguished representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2303	Your Honor, ma'am. Busic, exactly the opposite of what you said, said I in his replica minister, the Republic of Croatia showed the inability to make decisions and that was the key part that the Republic of Croatia resented and foreign media that did not manage in the crisis. I can agree that the crisis was great, that there were many problems, but the ability of those who lead is reflected in the timely decision-making of what to make. Europe has experienced something that it has not experienced since the beginning of the idea of Europe itself, which is not solidarity. In his response at one point, the big countries began to close down, and that was the problem of the one who chaired at that time the EU did not find an answer to that. And whether we achieved our goals, I must admit someone in his debate had said that they were not quantified and correct, were not quantified, so today we can't See if we've made them come true. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2304	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2305	My colleague, I truly, you have the right to your opinion, I would not agree with your opinion, I think we have done very, very much. And as for solidarity, I really think a lot of solidarity has shown here. Here's me. I've only listed one thing, one thing we've done, and that's repatriation. Yes, yes, I just, I mean we were really this solidarity and solidarity were both other countries and, and I personally if I could be a little bit personal, I was involved in so many people who, on Saturdays and Sundays and at midnight, called and, and prayed and cried for them to return to the Republic of Croatia and of course we wouldn't talk about it much, but really there was so much solidarity that I also experienced an emotional moment more maybe than for all those other years that I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and so I would only beg you if I said something personal about what I had experienced, yes, yes, here, here to listen only maybe I would convince you otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2306	The second replica is the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Busic, you know there is a difference between criticism and reasoned criticism. I believe, as much as I have followed as a representative in the assembly, that the Republic of Croatia has shown itself responsible to the Member State and despite the demanding times of the covid epidemic that it has properly presented our country, and that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has worked in the past term, I believe that there will also be the following, in the affirmation on the international agenda, and in addition to this, the fact that we have been entrusted with the duties of Vice-President of the European Commission, until the Council of Europe, where the Secretary-General, former Minister Marija Pejcinović-Burić, and even as with the covid epidemic, this is not just a series of random circumstances, but it is one persistent continuous work with positive outcomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2308	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2309	Thank you very much, I would really agree with you. Of course, there were so many successes, just unfortunately always, always about what, about some godless failures and affairs more said, not more than I would say sometimes and then what's news, the news is if something was bombing, if something good was done then it's not news at all, because unfortunately we have this situation, but I'll always try to express what I see, but, but what's supported by facts and what we've done, and not what I or someone else would like to say from my club, but I'll always be guided by facts and truth, and we'll see how we deal with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2310	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2311	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow ministers. I would first of all remind us that there was, of course, the parliamentary dimension of the EU presidency, that several of our committees led by the Committee on European Affairs actively participated in that part, the parliamentary part of the presidency, and that, unfortunately, here was 60% of it virtually, those first two and a half months, 3 these were physical meetings and agreements and talks. On all these regardless of whether they were virtual or, or actual meetings, we were getting praises and I think that in those 6 months, in completely exceptional circumstances for all our Member States, we achieved all our goals, the goal that we would like to all, which is that, that there were many more foreign guests and that, that there was talk about all these topics live and that these topics were thus much more imposed in the Croatian public, of course, it was not possible to achieve as we expected. At the very beginning of the story with the coronary virus it is logical that, I think it is logically expected that the EU first encountered such a thing, it was for the first one week, two days of quite a shock, of course that the Member States turned to themselves at the first moment, which is to be expected, but very quickly and there is no place for any pessimism or negative perception, very quickly the channels have been functioning and I think it should all be seen as some kind of learning process in completely extraordinary circumstances. As far as these goals are concerned, I think they were all capable and quantified. I'll look back only on two. One thing is that North Albania, Northern Macedonia and Albania, I apologize, have started negotiations, and I think that for the Republic and BiH, this entire Western Balkans area is extremely good news except that these NATO member states are the alliance of our ally and a very friendly state, I think that these early negotiations are directly influenced by, in, in, in, in this space, and in the future and in social and economic relations, because today, at the beginning, I mentioned internal migrations are something that I think is bothering us all no matter where we sit in the assembly, I think we are all aware that logically rich advanced and highly developed societies and economies are much easier than ever before drawn to young ambitious and educated. However, statistics indicate that countries like these two, Northern Macedonia and Albania, which are not members of the EU actually have a bigger problem keeping their young, ambitious, educated people. So, EU membership is also certain that there is no such crisis as an excellent tool to improve your own economy, competitiveness and to launch various processes and jobs and the like, in order to maintain educated young people. And my last topic today is the question of money. So, EU funds, I think we can all be together, I think we should all be together, no matter what foreigners belong to, satisfied that the Croatian Government has fought for more than 22 billion euros. We can get here and I think that's easy to quantify, we can differ here by 100 topics, like this, and when we all come down to it, given the challenges ahead of us, given the consequences of the earthquake of Zagreb and the surrounding area and everything that's been happening to us over the past months. I mean, it's hard to believe we can't agree on that. So that is an excellent result, excellent news for Croatia, and I think we just need to make good use of it now, I'll remind us, Poland is from, the only EU country that hasn't been in recession in the past crisis. Why? Because they made maximum use of EU funds and directed them into the private sector. I am sure that this experience and we will use it over the past few months at these virtual sessions of various bodies because I am also active in the Association of Medium and Small Entrepreneurs of the European People's Party, 3 are the words most often heard, which is re-industrialisation, digitalisation and environmental protection. All these 3 topics are important for Croatia and I think that the great opportunity is actually, on the one hand to change our economic structure, it is evident that we need to reduce our dependence on tourism, and on the other hand, there will be a lot of money, there will be even more than ever for agriculture, and we will achieve real self-sufficiency in that segment and then, in some ways, tie it to tourism. Here, I will only end up with a sentence to expect, of course, that primarily medium and small entrepreneurs, craftsmen will be the biggest winners in the coming years of all that money coming from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2312	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2313	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Milosevic, I am pleased that you are in your debate, I think that we have gone quite far and that in your debate you have returned to some of the main objectives of the presidency and what we may be neglecting, and should be mentioned, and that is precisely the issue of enlargement. We know how long Croatia has come, what we have been through in terms of EU membership and the very subject of enlargement. The decision to open accession negotiations with Albania and Sj is now adopted in our presidency. Macedonia, we open and close the last chapter of Montenegro's negotiations, we open the issue of the European path of BiH, we put the Kosovo issue on the table, for Southeast Europe, for where we are, I think these are very important topics that affect both tourism and the economy, not just the future of the EU, but the aspect that we have opened and imposed these topics and closed some, I think it is, however The great success of this presidency. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2314	The answer to the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2315	I agree with my colleague Bacic. Yes, of course. I think that opening negotiations will have a good impact on Croatian-Serbian relations. So, I think it's from this perspective now before the negotiations with Sj. With Macedonia and Albania alone, this relationship between Serbia-Montenegro, Montenegro, much faster, but these two countries have negotiated for us now in a slightly wider set, so from these two countries I think that for the whole area, the focus, priorities will be redistributed in some way, and I think that, for what I think our national interests in that area, south of us, not only economically but also security, the Croats in BiH, so there are a number of topics that are very important for us, that will get one good new opportunity and a new dimension.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2316	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2317	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, you have also touched agricultural production in your debate. If never, then today we see how important it is to have your strong agricultural production, or to produce your own food. 2.5 billion for direct payments in agriculture, there are still a variety of support and measures through rural development, I hope that also in the national programme, and that also said by the Prime Minister, agriculture will take a high place and it will give wind to Slavonia, but also to all other regions in better and more encouraging work for farmers, cattlemen and warlords.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2318	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2319	Of course. Agriculture is and can and can very, very quickly become a significant engine of development and recovery of the Republic of Croatia, especially when you look from the position of tourist offer and what in the future, we hope, tourism, not only to recover but in some way to move towards those of the richest, those who will leave as much money as possible, since I do not believe that we want to turn into some destination of mass tourism and low consumption per tourist. So it's on one side. On the other hand, I stress, the opportunity over the next seven years is incredible. They change, as we talk here, they change supply chains around the world, the process of globalisation gets in economic and political terms, some new direction, and I think we can take advantage of it. It is precisely that shift of dependence on full dependence on tourism, in terms of re-industrialisation and return of part of jobs from China Croatia, too. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2320	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2321	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, however, you have put all the advantages and challenges that Croatia has actually resisted during this most difficult period of time when someone could chair the EU Council and none of those who criticise do not want to put themselves in the position of those who were supposed to organise such a thing at that time. All that was prepared had to be completely changed, adapted to the new situation, made it possible for everything to happen, to organise, to achieve certain results, attitudes, to impose ourselves with attitudes and solutions, as well as to respect these solutions and good suggestions made by our chairmanship and our president. So it needs to be properly valorized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2322	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2323	Yes, thank you, colleague Peric, so I must say from personal experience, and this parliamentary dimension is still, knows the minister even more freely because the representatives of national parliaments are virtually virtual or not, very, very, much more direct than they are in the strict meetings of the Councils of Ministers, etc. So, there are no gloves talking and there would be people ready, and I've been with some of them really these past few years created excellent relationships were quite, quite frankly honestly critical of other people or we haven't received exclusive commendation, people are aware of all the challenges and what you've said, and it's really, really under completely extraordinary circumstances to the side of the earthquake. So people said listen that you didn't have an earthquake that given all the stress that we've been going through together were really extraordinary circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2324	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have opened the issue of the European Funds, the necessary economic reforms, and we have also seen in this debate that sometimes it tries to analyse or reduce the importance of these 22 billion euro agreed on by the European Council, you have great experience in the management of large systems and in the public administration as former vice president and in the private sector. How much is your assessment that it will still be that 22 billion one stopper for these reforms you mentioned?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2326	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2327	I thank my colleague Stier, so of course it will be a huge stopper, they will indirectly, so part of it will definitely go, and given these crises especially earthquakes and what awaits us is the reconstruction of Zagreb, but the blocker of the economy is also the answer to that, not only in Zagreb, much wider than that. Therefore, this money that may, in part, end directly in the reconstruction, but also indirectly, the potential of this money for all of Croatia and for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, especially small builders from all over Croatia, will be indirectly returned to us, of course, to economic recovery, to the preservation of jobs. If God gives me that I am safe in the next years and in the return of all those who have gone from Croatia to Croatia in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2328	Thank you. The last replica, the distinguished representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2329	Dear Mr Milosevic, you have, unlike many, quantified the two objectives of the Croatian EU presidency. One goal was enlargement, I have to admit it was much more set than it was achieved and I think it's something that might be because of the circumstances, but that's one goal that hasn't been achieved entirely, at least when we listen to those who should have gotten it. And the second goal you presented here was how many visits and meetings that were actually PR and which might have been good for Croatia, and then it was interesting to hear how much of that didn't happen and my last question to you was actually what Mr. Stier said you're a businessman. What kind of message do you think we're being sent to the businessmen who are withdrawing from Croatia now by withdrawing after we've received the money and preside? EU? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2330	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2331	Yes, I didn't understand this one of these questions about meeting this one, it was just like that all together, I think the key objective of enlargement is to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. You know, you remember how long we've been negotiating, so I think it's crucial. Now how long this process will last, first of all, at the end of the day, will end, depending on the two states. As for these meetings, I'm saying I didn't understand it until the end, and what are you, if you could just remind me of the third? And you might think of Meggle, so I have to tell you this personally I'm also following up on one Meggle if that happens, and it's probably going to come about a foreign investor, 10s and 10s of other examples of the past years of entering Croatian foreign companies. And I'm sure this money will be right in front of us because those Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Poles have had opportunities for the last 17 years to do this. We do now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2332	The next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2333	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, I would continue this presentation of this evaluation of the EU presidency that we started today, Mr Rasdic and I. Our EU presidency began at a actually solemn, solemn concert of baroque music in HNK and was quite interestingly scheduled to sit in that HNK. Let me just remind you that the seating schedule was such that corruption and non-functioning justice sat next to each other. What do I mean by that? So one side of the other was Mr. Bandic and former state lawyer Mr. Drazen Jelinic. Quite interesting what kind of message we sent as a state throughout the EU when a person with several confirmed indictments sat before the chief state attorney who charged them and filed charges. In terms of the structural reforms we all call upon, in terms of the rule of law, I find this situation extremely worrying. I had an even bigger question, the government that commented that the seating schedule was in order of the championship. And that championship means we've neither dealt with corruption nor the rule of law or the judiciary. In the second point, I would also like to touch the migrant crisis. Mr. Plenkovic, along with Mr. Charles Michel and Mr. David Sassoli, visited the Greek-Turkish land border to see the situation with migrants, however, I must remind you that Croatia still has huge problems with migrants today even though we have somehow dropped the subject. If you go to Zvecaj, Novigrad on Good, General Table or the area around the Cup at the border with Slovenia, you will see that several hundred migrants arriving from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Algeria on a daily basis, which has nothing to do with Syria, have been crossing the border for the past three years. There's a pretty big question that's being asked is that the government during the crisis Covid has imposed on us, which is okay and legitimate, to go from cities to municipalities with passes. However, the question is then how illegal migrants cross the modern territory of the Republic of Croatia without any documents. About Covid himself, that's what we've already touched today. Every praise to our expert team, especially our doctors, our nurses, the entire staff involved in the Covid crisis itself, however, what is the fact that despite the very successful management of the Covid crisis, we have remained completely undetected by the EU media and the political scene, and this can be seen from, say, one Portugal and one of the Slovaks who have managed to impose the Covid crisis even more on them than the Republic of Croatia, which has done its job very well. And on the other hand, let's not even take an example of Italy and Spain that are statistical outsiders on this issue. If we take the rule of rights that we have touched, the migrant crisis we have major problems with, but for some reason we don't talk about this subject anymore, and Covid himself, which we all call on so much, where in one wave we acted as Chinese models, then we acted according to the Swedish model where even experts, so their opinions, for example, Mr. Beros, were questioned for the reason that they declared that Covid, that the virus had weakened, which raised all scientists, especially Mr. Djikic and others who were following the situation on their feet for reasons that science never said such a thing. Given our arguments that we made when we were at the Bridge Club and in this, these 3 segments of the rule of law, the migrant crisis and the surveillance of citizens during Covid, we also believe that this presidency was not satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2334	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Josip Salapic. It's a microphone, buddy. Here's Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2335	Dear colleague. I don't think it's up to me to defend anyone who's been led by certain procedures. But allow me one thing, you said the judiciary was sitting at the beginning of the Croatian EU presidency. There are state protocols, there's a certain rule where you sit. The mayor of Zagreb, the mayor of this, the head of that and I wouldn't comment on it. But something about the judiciary. The Croatian Constitution says no one is to blame until a judicial verdict proves him guilty. We're all in HS calling for the rule of law. We have a number of investigations that have fallen precisely because there is something in the media that should fall under a secret investigation. How do you expect the judiciary to end its procedure when everything in advance in the media appears as something that should be a secret, and also, how to legally condemn someone and free them by fair procedure, if we who sit here and all drill and call for the rule of law, do not allow the judicial system and the judiciary to do their job impartially, honestly and independently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2336	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2337	Dear Mr Sabljic, it is a little unserious in general that during the presentation of the Croatian EU presidency, a person with 3 indictments by the main State Attorney's office, by chance, under quotes, is scheduled to sit with the former chief state attorney. There's a lot of questions going on here. On the other hand, when you're going to talk to the judiciary about this, I'm going to ask you the same additional question, which is that Mr. Sanader was in Russia during the World Cup, allegedly having major heart problems, and we know very well that Croatia was going through quarterfinals, semifinals and other games, where heart problems can come up with large questionnaires. So, it's also a big problem that we found ourselves in a situation where Mr. Prime Minister found himself at the World Cup watching those games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2338	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, congratulations on the successful Presidency of the EU Council. It was a presidency that had to adapt to a sudden situation like this pandemic, but it was able to adapt to it and will likely be remembered in history as the first digital EU presidency. However, the pandemic did not only change that aspect. It changes the good part of international relations, changes a lot in Europe as well. Until the pandemic, we witnessed a series of processes that could say that there was a certain fragmentation of the EU. We had a lot of debates and tensions between the north and south, due to the debt crisis, in the Eurozone, over migration issues between Central Europe and Western members, of course we had Brexit. However, the EU's response to this pandemic was a response that obviously changed the trend, which put the need for cooperation first, closer cooperation, because the response reached at the European Council session for the first time allows for those more developed countries, richer members if you want the EU to first agree to go to the European Commission's international capital market and to do so on behalf of the EU as a whole. And that is something that is extremely good, especially for new members like the Republic of Croatia and as we have mentioned before for the countries of Central Europe. In this regard, it seems that this trend of stronger integration if nothing else is caused and with this crisis that has shown that only through such cooperation can concrete and adequate solutions be reached, the issue and the future of the EU raises one eternal issue, but which is now being updated. Those who have built a policy based on fragmentation, who have tried to divide or challenge the European project themselves, I think this response to the European Council session and active participation and Central European countries have shown that this is not the way. Of course, they remain among those who are for the European project as well. For example, the left hand which supports it also has a radical which is also anti-European, but that left hand which supports the European project has one or one EU understanding that relativises the principle of subsidiarity, which will try to impose certain ideologically, if you want the world-wide themes on Member States and even relativise the issue of national countries and their roles. The Christian democracy, on the other hand, stresses exactly the opposite, stresses the principle of subsidiarity, stresses that the EU will develop more easily, be stronger if we have strong national states, but not national states that will be in conflict but will co-operate. This principle of subsidiarity is therefore extremely crucial and important to affirm in this coming period and I believe that, in this sense, the Republic of Croatia will have a particular role to play in this conference on the future of Europe to continue to be the response that will enable all members to strengthen their sovereignty, to have the opportunity to give all citizens a better standard, which will be done precisely through European co-operation, but European co-operation that includes both strengthening and strengthening their positions and national states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2340	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2341	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stier. I don't think that's an absolute understanding, and it's not worth the enlargement issue enough. Some say that we failed to finish there, and on the one hand small Croatia managed to change the methodology, she insisted on convincing Macron, if you can be a former Europarliamentary, the former European Minister of Business explains the value of enlargement, the roles of Croatia and also the gratitude that the candidate countries showed to Croatia even though they do not come from our family in the open. The second thing, what I see also not to be understood, is the role of the president who should be... a broker in Brussels, or who should lead to compromise, is why the national objectives. We have met national targets with 22 billion euros, but we are also... a broker throughout the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2342	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2343	Thank you. Dear colleague Pavić. It is really important that we have for our national security in our neighbourhood as much as possible, that the countries that our neighbours accept to the greatest extent possible European criteria. Of course it's not simple and the fact is that the enlargement process, which we've talked about several times and here in this House, the enlargement process has somehow lost that opportunity to encourage these real, fundamental reforms. And that's why this whole process should have led to certain changes. During the Croatian Presidency, this has been done and I think it is good, that the whole process of real reforms that countries that want to join the EU should do much more, and that is certainly good for Croatia and for our national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2344	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2345	Thank you very much. It was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2346	We didn't record it. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Bulj, Milosevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2347	Excuse me, Comrade Bull. Here's less than 60 seconds. As one of the fundamental principles of the EU, you mentioned subsidiarity, and I would also ask you for solidarity. So, yesterday there was a debate here about the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the environment and if 500 million euros in money from the European Solidarity Fund, and it's not some virtual money, I think it's somehow with us, and even in this assembly it gets the impression that some Martians are sending some money to us Croats, I think it's some Dutch, German, French, they've been doing it, they've paid taxes, so their governments have approved that money to end up in that fund, to end up here with us. So, I think that's really enough, quite good proof of solidarity, so I don't think we should spend any more words for our public, and that's when someone doesn't understand why the government took over 60 or 80 percent together with the regional administration when it comes to reconstruction and the rest, and that's where I agree with my colleagues on the left, and that's that, with further consideration in terms of social sensitivity to those who are really the poorest. So the most vulnerable need to find a solution. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2348	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2349	Thank you. Dear fellow Milosevic, solidarity is indeed the concept that takes into account the general good. So, helping someone but looking not only at it as a charity, no, but helping in the sense that it can achieve common good, something that will be good for that Member State, but also for the whole of this particular case for the EU or if we are going to talk about our national dimension. So solidarity with those who have experienced this earthquake disaster because it is important not only for the City of Zagreb but for the general good of all Croatia. So in this concept, really solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of Europe, and of course we apply it not only at European level but also at national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2350	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. What? Now it's Mr. Bulj having his own individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2351	Thank you very much. Here, we have been discussing the Presidency of the Croatian EU, the European Council all day long, and here my predecessor has just called here for EU criteria for his members. Of course, the most important thing is if there is an equality and equality in the EU at all, i.e. the equality of all peoples. Member States within the EU which, of course, Croatia is neither equal nor has the same rights as other members, nor do we of course benefit from bad policies and pre-accession because it is visible from all aspects that we will now mention here in a few sentences. First of all, when we talk about Croatia, Croatia did not exercise its right to declare i.e. the preservation of its national interests in strategic resources by declaring an exclusive economic belt. You, Mr Stier, know very well because you were my predecessor that Croatia has the right to do so under the 1982 International Treaty and, of course, invites the EU to declare an exclusive economic belt and that we have the full application of an exclusive economic belt, and not that Italian fleets do not know what they want to do to us, and our fishermen have been suppressed in their own country within the EU. Also, when we talk about agricultural land of members called Hungary, it banned the sale of agricultural land, Croatia did not. I gave the past term and the law banning the sale of agricultural land and amendments to the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, you unfortunately did not accept either live or right. This is not a question, this is a question of the sovereign right of every member, why Hungary could buy in, legal and natural person agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, and Croatia cannot in Hungary, Croatian national legal or natural person. So, the key points of the European Community of the current EU are set in the interest that they naturally placed on the Croatian market in our import elites within the political octopus, particularly here at the Ministry of Agriculture. And now it changes once a paradigm, a new sovereignty and self-sufficiency. When I was speaking, I think I proposed laws along with my MOST Club to preserve domestic production, to share the Croatian peasant agricultural land, to protect our waters, our resources as a basic human right to put into the mouth what Slovenia did, when we talked about very important topics for the preservation of our village's national strategic interests, our peasants, what happened, I propose a ban on GMOs, imports, transport, sales and trade, of course, because of the interests of large multinational companies, and not the interest of domestic production, not the interest of domestic production. And that's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, which is why unfortunately we have a dead village that we need to resuscitate, which is why today we have 6% of GDP from evicted young people because of these poor policies that are now in Ireland, Germany, 6% of GDP is from evicted people because of the bad policies that this corona has exposed. And these are the facts, Mr Stier, Mr Milosevic, that is the truth that Croatia is not equal within the EU and that we must protect our interests. Well, the UK hasn't left the EU, which came to mind, and we haven't got a reason yet. My colleague Rasdic asked these questions, asked these questions. In the crisis it was seen, here is an example of the Marrakesh Agreement, no matter how much I agree with it, the Bundestag disagreed on it, and the Croatian Parliament did not, the Croatian Parliament was denied to us parliamentarians last year i.e. in the last session to be debated in the assembly, rather than as Angela Merkel has ordered. For example, here is another one, the teleoperators in Croatia do not have a tribune building permit for the installation of antenna pillars, base stations and the highest profit in the Republic, the highest profit. 40% and 42% even the head of HT. Deutsche Telecoma, the sister company praises how much he gets. Why? Because they don't behave in Croatia like they do in their own countries. When we act the same law that this will make sense to the EU Croatia is depressed. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2352	Time, thank you very much, thank you. Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first line has Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2353	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Bulj, it is unfortunate that the most numerous political group in this assembly is HDZ, in fact, and the ruling party has not responded to statements coming from Italy from Andrea Delmastra, a national parliament representative from Fratelli d'Italia, who said it is scandalous that Italian fishermen entering Croatian territorial waters at all, no one has responded from HDZ, we have been looking for years to declare an exclusive economic belt they do not want to declare, and what worries is that the Italian fishermen' association of Italian fishermen is paying penalties for entering Croatian territorial waters, and Croatian politicians and Croatian leaders, especially those from the ruling party. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2354	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2355	Thank you very much. Well, it's no wonder we have that best friend i.e. The same are parliamentary ones, from the same families of the popular party, Tajani's party and HDZ party, and simply on their own, fascist bargaining from Tajani Italian fascist Dalmatia and Istria, the prime minister doesn't say anything, but even boasts about Istria in campaigns, boasts of friendship while our fishermen, of course, have to leave and do not have the same right to exhume fish as Italian fleets that destroy both flora and fauna and not, even uncontrollably destroy everything and even mock us with Croatian cops where they lift their middle finger when they stop. Why? Because it is important for them to agree because of their specific positions, these exterminal officials who manage the Croatian State because they are more important to the light of Brussels than to protect the exclusive economic belt, our sea, our agricultural land which is the sovereign right of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2356	Thank you very much. Mr. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2357	Yeah, thanks, pal Bull, you're really wrong, and it'd be really good if you liked to talk to me about it, but if you could read it a little bit more, but I'll tell you the next thing. You said that the question of our equality, is that I understood well, do we hear each other, equality, now imagine how they feel about the crisis right now, and this serious crisis is affected by these slightly richer, more developed than we are, how they feel equal until they know, they're out of work, they're getting paid on bills in Germany, Austria, I don't know where they're still giving up some of their money directly or indirectly through state budgets for us to get money. Let's use our time here and what's in front of us and that money to get us very developed as soon as possible. I'd like it to be our country as soon as possible to pay other poor people, not to give me that... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2358	Thank you very much, Mr. Milosevic. Sir, Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2359	Yes, we should withdraw that money that the Croatian people pay for membership and no one gave us anything, Mr Milosevic, in Croatian. It's first and foremost. And secondly, I struggle not to be in Croatia, for example. Monopoly, you know it. The company that provides extinguishers, the only company in the Republic of Croatia that gives this is a monopoly because in Croatian these technical reviews, so these are problems in Croatia. And I'm very well-read and you know why I came to politics, I'm a man with a high school, from a village, a 20-year-old Croatian army officer, you know why? Because of the stolen people who have destroyed Croatia here under these lights, and have not worked in the lights of the Croatian man, but the fact that 2/3 of Croatia is empty while you pretend that someone has not read something, I have read everything. And a lot more than you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2360	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by Mr Milosevic. Can I get you an article?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2361	Yes, Article 238. Mr. Bulj presents lies, namely monopolies were abolished there in the 1990s, and in Croatia today there is one if you think of the company Pastor pair of 10 companies that offer fire extinguishers, the one that produces them and the Croatian are the product. 70 % are exported to 10 EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2362	There's also a breach of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2363	So, a fellow Milosevic injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, the Croatian Vehicle Centre has a monopoly in the Republic of Croatia, public authority as well as for example. A company called the Fire Department of these appliances and so on. They are companies that have a monopoly and thus exist in Croatia. I said I fought for an equal market and the same market for everyone so you didn't deny me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2364	You've replicated yourself nicely. Let's move on, Mr. Troscott, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2365	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj, I see that you are quite involved in the very theme of agriculture, so I would like to ask you to comment on the following situations. During the political campaign, multiple appeals were sent to the rulers to protect agricultural land by moratories, and unfortunately the request was sent on the last day and 30.6.2020, respectively. Can you read out the ruling party's strategy and how do you comment? And under number 2, Hungary as an EU country has additionally protected its land in which a foreigner can buy land in Hungary itself, but must come to Hungary and thus contribute to Hungarian society. Do you see it as one of the solutions in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2366	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2367	I'll start with this last one. Of course Hungary has arranged it and that a stranger can live here and open his OPG or that he should open up and become the owner, but in us foreigners, our first village has been evicted, all the laws are made to move ours, so we have 100,000 acres of unprocessed land of fertile soil, of which 400,000 is owned, hectares, owned by the state. So our people deliberately moved out of Slavonia, Zagora, Lika, Gorski kotar to give it to foreigners on the plate. Of course Hungary arranged it that way. As for your first part, the moratorium is absolutely since Hungary is not using the moratorium but a ban on agricultural land, Croatia must ban the sale of agricultural land because in this crisis it is visible, the coronary crisis has shown how important self-sufficiency is primarily for food products. Let a week close our borders as much as possible, we will not literally have such rich countries, Croatia will unfortunately be hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2368	Thank you very much. And now, at the end of the day, Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2369	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj, I believe you're... The problems of inequality and inequality of our citizens have been highlighted, however, you have wrongly addressed the culprit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not the fault of the Brussels bureaucrats or the guilt of the EU as such that our corrupt chains are already guilty, and it is best seen on the issue of the agricultural policy that you have talked about so much. Namely, the problem of our agricultural producers is not in the lack of agricultural land, so we are very often witnessing ourselves that the crops are being dumped because they have no one to sell, so the problem is how competitive they are and what prices they can place. That's what the policies of our governments are, and our governments need to be accused. I would also like to say that one of the main problems of agricultural policy is the non-selective giving of agricultural incentives. Of the 100 largest, 30 are not in the VAT system, which means they do not pay taxes to the state, they do not hire and receive millions of agricultural incentives. This is what we need to change, not solidarity within Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2370	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2371	My colleague, so the problem is undivided agricultural land, I will start from the end, the problem is that Croatia has never given any more incentives and we have never produced less. Literally, incentives are given in livestock farming, for example, in junk from European funds for eco-maintaining pastures for cows and literally to people who don't know what a cow looks like, they don't know how many cows have tits, which I once said, and it's so picturesque and so simply said. So, simple money is given to those who don't produce per kilogram, per litre, but are given to whom it suits, and that's the problem. The other problem is of course, I gave the laws, here a ban on GMOs to protect domestic production, easier division of agricultural land because we have 400,000 ha, the state is the owner of unprocessed land, and the third is competition, which is why it is uncompetitive, because our people have to arm the import lobby and the vermin within the ministry that favour only foreign capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2372	Thank you very much, thank you. It is now up to Mr Marin Miletic who will have his individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2373	Dear Vice President Radin of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, Professor Tudjman, don't go to me please, I will mention you in the speech, there is Miletic upstairs, I wish you were here. Today the prime minister told us Mostovs in the media, I look forward to crying people, let them pay whoever they want, they're the biggest cryers. Dear MPs and MPs, I really expect a lot more from those who represent this country, then also from us who are here in the Croatian Parliament. I want you to look at our young Bridges, a generation of young politicians, believe me, it's '91. Mr. Each of us starting from me to Ante Kujundzic, would stand on the defender of the homeland and those who could have stood on the defender of the homeland like our General Bulj. We wouldn't justify ourselves with red blood cells and a weak blood count if we weren't where every husband should be. In the end, women too were in the Homeland War. As far as some other things are concerned, I mentioned... A stranger because he was one, what years ago, '97. I used to come to Mesnica Street and watch the first Croatian president with my own eyes and listen to him say, so here, I kind of wanted to tie it up, but never mind, there's going to be an opportunity. As for the other thing, this, look out, Mr. Kleman, it's my colleague and really a nice politician across the street from Učka, he said it didn't happen again with the bridge, he said they were pushing their justice, they wanted to raise HDZ as a party. I'm not going to be a screening now, so I'm going to say that we've raised at least certain HDZs, certainly 14 ministers would not have been replaced in 39 months, many of whom have been replaced for corruption and nepotism, but good. I'd like to talk to you about the great allegory of a small dysfunctional state. I'm telling you now, Croatian people, to you who will watch this video and listen to what you're told. Croatia signed the Opatija Declaration during its EU presidency. The Opatija Declaration says a lot of things, but I'll stay at the point of environmental protection. Environmental protection. Croatian people, I personally remained shocked, consterned in every way when I found out what was going on on the desert island of Dragon. Let the island of Zmajan, the Sibenik well know what I'm talking about and the Dalmatians, the Dalmatians call it Orut, was an island of untouched beautiful nature until a villa with a pool was built on it and a mall with a 20-metre waterfront on which is the largest boat we have of ferrys. What I'm telling you with my own eyes I've watched, so I'm going to file an application and everything else that needs to be done by Croatian citizens and to preserve our nature. The villa was built on land, distinguished parliamentary representatives of Branka Juričev Martinchev and her family. And it was all built completely illegal, for the thing to be worse, that complex came out where it was never meant to be. I've spent 12 years on this island with my scouts and young people on this island, in Mala Bunja, you know what I'm talking about, the ruined Bunja, a 20-million-dollar villa with a pool and a 20-metre waterfront. Whether the media will finish the job or encourage the job and the government's trio in this country will do something, whether the judiciary will react, perhaps the judiciary that is here, will lead the story of Mr. Ivan Malenica and Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev wouldn't even be here if the party machine hadn't done the job so she entered the Croatian Parliament, I congratulate her on that. A respected representative told the media, Telegram wrote about it, will write more these days, wrote about her saying that it was not her country, although catastrian in the municipal court's land and book department in Sibenik is exactly the modern villa that was installed there. I've been completely shocked by this, not only by me, but by many other residents of that neighborhood. What is important Croatian peoples, illegally built, is legally offered 50 000 kuna a week, Croatian peoples are renting a villa on the desert island of Zmajana. The question is, is that how we protect Croatian interests, do we protect the Croatian country, do we fight for what the Croatian defenders fought for? They gave us the freedom to sell in our freedom today the Croatian country to foreigners with some strange malfeasances. So, I'm just hoping that this store won't be developed in some such novel by Agatha Christie, but if it is, I'm not afraid of anything and we'll fight to the end. Four years, four years for truth, justice and honesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2374	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Enough fighting, thanks. It's not my word right now, though it would be, but we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I have to give them the advantage of not sticking to the subject, but I'm going to give it to Mrs. Dobbs first. Bedekovic's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. Paragraph 238(1), the representative, during the debate, speaks of an issue which is not the subject of discussion, equally the same Article 238, paragraph 5, the distinguished colleague demeans and insults fellow Members and colleagues. Thank you very much. .../Intruder Miletić: May I answer?...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2376	No, you can't answer that. - Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2377	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I also point out that the officer was injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because the colleague in this debate did not speak at all about the subject which is the item of the agenda and also, as the colleague said, defamed the MPs and rendered them false. Please instruct him to read the Rules of Procedure, I know he's a new colleague, but the Rules of Procedure is what we all have to stick to here and so does he. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2378	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, they have the right of two colleagues, you haven't stuck to the subject. I've only just performed for the first time in this session, I won't make any warnings but You can't answer, you can give a breach to the Rules of Procedure [[Invader Miletic: May I answer you?]] You can give a breach to your Rules of Procedure [[Upadica Miletic: All right, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.]] You must give an article and a word about what this is about [[Intruding Miletic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go. [[Intruder Miletic: Excuse me, Vice President F. Radin, I'm giving you an injury to the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2379	So, I spoke precisely about the Opatija Declaration, which was signed as part of the Croatian EU Presidency project, and as part of the events of the project, certain malversions took place, and my duty as a representative in the Croatian Parliament is to publicly warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2380	Let's move on, let's go with the replicas. I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure, Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2381	Thank you very much, Vice President. I ask you now to give a warning to your colleagues because he has re-injured the Rules of Procedure and this time abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure so that it will not be repeated in the future. The whole debate was actually for free speeches and not for this debate, and now he has abused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2382	Let's get a little chilly and move on with the replicas, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2383	The least important thing is what the prime minister says in any political option, it is much more important whether the Croatian government is working in the interests of the Croatian people, so I would once again call through this replica to protect Croatian fishermen and the Croatian seas, to declare an exclusive economic belt, to protect Croatian farmers, to finally divide the agricultural land and to leave people in the Croatian village and that it is in the interest of the people to protect domestic production, to protect in essence the self-sufficient Croatia that the prime minister is now calling for. What we talked about the whole term of the past, only at the end of the term of office, suddenly began to speak the same dictionary that we talked about in the Bridge all the time, then even fellow Miletic called us when we talked about self-sufficiency, about Croatian production, about the vermin within the ministries that are doing import lobbys, then he called us the shepherds, the hives, the likes, the likes of which are heroes, he would have liked it to have been so when it was thundering but unfortunately... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2384	Thank you very much, Mr. Miletić, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2385	Replication response. So I'd like to make myself perfectly clear. As I experience the vision of the Croatian Parliament no matter what some speak or not young, honesty is the foundation of everything and no matter what political platform you belong to, I will be absolutely decent, such as by my foundation and habitat, but where there is no honesty, where there is injustice, not that we will shout, but we will do everything we can, which in democracy is, of course, allowed, that these people do not have peace until justice comes where they need to come. Thanks, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2386	Mr. Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2387	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Miletic, you mentioned a declaration, so in the context of environmental protection, I ask you, it seems to me somewhere in mid-July there was a fire in Rijeka, was there some kind of reaction by authority and here, what is the situation with citizens and the quality of health?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2388	Thank you, colleague Kujundzic, for this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2389	I'm sorry, I have to give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2390	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Furio Radin, thank you, too, Mr. Kujundzic. Here's what I can talk about now about the port of Rijeka, but not only about the port of Rijeka, but also about the Rijeka SDP. So recently there was a big fire at the river port, the whole town was covered in an incredible horrible, stinking smoke that was coming down from the immediate vicinity of the sea. The media has reported this in secret in a very dangerous waste dump fire. So they said there was a fire in the river. The days pass, the people of Rijeka have no voice, no information about how it happened, from the city of Rijeka, from the administration of the Rijeka port, who is responsible, what has been done about how much smoke was poisoned and how much money is being resold to dangerous waste in Rijeka and because of this, my first reaction, but certainly not the last. Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2391	- Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2392	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Miletic, you who speak of truth and justice, would have been correct, having read the article in Telegram, if you had read it to the end. Speaking of foreign owners, it's certainly not me, that you could see and not tell lies, so my husband, I'll repeat it to the owner of 1,000 square feet of particle that has a total of 18 thousand square meters. 1,000 squares in the southeast. The facility is located on the northwest part of the forest, hard to see from the waterfront either. We have nothing to do with it. My husband is neither the owner nor the builder nor the client of this facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2393	Mr. Miletić, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2394	... No.../incomprehensible/... no syncope, I personally looked into your husband's eyes while he was sitting on a plastic chair when I boated Don God Schember to the waterfront and he told me that he was on that terrace and he made it, and that the earth was made the way it was. [[Specially enabled.]] But legal services will take care of things further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2395	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2396	Thank you, Vice President. I will not deal with these individual cases, but what I am interested in in in the context of this presidency, environmental protection, so, can you, colleague Miletic, comment, mean you have already spoken about it in the Croatian Parliament, the situation around the waste management centre which, I would say, is a big problem for the health of our citizens, but ultimately, a huge financial burden in the perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2397	Here you go, Mr. Miletic, but You have to give, you have to raise your hand or bat if you want to respond to the replica. [[I'll answer Mr. Vice President.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. counterpart from Rijeka, Dinko Beakovic from HDZ, if I read it correctly, and I think so, today he informed the Rijeka public that 50 citizens of Viskov filed criminal charges against the director, so Eco Mariscina, the whole story of Mariscina and against other people. Why? Because the Mariscian people are poisoning themselves, the lady called us yesterday, people are puking. That's what we should say in the Croatian Parliament. They're puking from the smell. The second thing, 4 workers were poisoned at that county waste management centre, and the Public Health School said in February that 5 carcinogenic elements were in the air, 116 chemical compounds that were illicit and kept it from the public until July, so we'll push it to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2399	Thank you very much, and now it's Mr. Bolt's turn with an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2400	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to explain the anxiety of Prime Minister Plenkovic now. So Croatia also said in May through ambassadors to Belgrade Hidajet Bištevic that the goal by the end of the Croatian presidency was to open at least another Serbian chapter. Despite these wishes of Croatian politics and Croatian political leadership, however, other European states have blocked Serbia even though Serbia has been failing to fulfil its commitments for years in the area of the rule of law that is vital to Croatia. So, the thing is, I would remind you, there is unfortunately no Prime Minister, but he doesn't need this explanation, he knows the background of his nervous reaction today, but here it is, for the sake of the Croatian public. So respected foreign ministers, Serbian commitments are: A) cooperation to determine the fate of missing Croatian citizens in Serbian aggression, under B) enabling access to justice and fair compensation to Croatian victims of Serbian aggression, including our people whom Serbia kidnapped, imprisoned and abused in concentration camps in its territory. Serbia's blockade was brought out by European states that are more advanced than the Republic of Croatia according to the rule of law. I also refer to Bulgaria, which, during your past term, was respected by the foreign ministers and the mandate of your Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, passed by European indicators of political corruption of the judiciary. So we even managed to get worse from Bulgaria. Fortunately, some European leaders, unlike this government, hold to the fundamental European values of the rule of law, so they blocked Serbia, and unfortunately, respected ministers, you decided to hide from Croatian MPs in your comprehensive bureaucratic report on the rotating presidency. None of the 7 countries that blocked Serbia, such as Croatia's vital national interest, are strictly monitoring Serbia's rule of law, in order to protect the interests of its citizens, missing and abused in Serbia's aggression. However, it should be admitted. No government in 7 countries that have blocked Serbia has as much as the Croatian Government of the vital and key coalition partner associated with the Vucic regime. To your coalition partner as well as Vucic's regime, as well as your government, is not interested in blocking the Serbian negotiating process because of the apparent failure to comply with Serbian obligations in the area of rule of law. Your fiasco in the realisation of Croatian interests for Serbia to carry out commitments in the area of rule of law, you cannot blur with day-long public speculation whether your vice president will have stomach sickness if he comes to Knin. These are key issues, on these key issues every time I ask them here at HS, we have one nervous reaction from the prime minister. Why? Because I know all about chronology. In 2016 while the Bridge was part of the government, Serbia was blocked twice. After our exit from the government, you set up a commission, or commission was established during Oreshkovic's government, but during the time you led this government, no commission was met, and it is four times a year to report to the President or the President of the Republic. You haven't done it once. This shows that the Croatian interest is not to monitor Serbia, but to open the door wide to Serbia. But here, thanks to these Scandinavian countries, thanks to Germany and Belgium, Serbia is on its own, on that path because of its failure to fulfil its obligations. I asked the prime minister normally today, you could all see his reaction, which means I hit the target right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2401	Mr. Bull has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2402	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmo, a great closeness, i.e. The joint party of the families of the European regiments, Plenkovic and Vučić, otherwise a Chetnik of penitentiaries who did great evil in this area, urged people of Serbian nationality to commit crimes. Simply, the process to finally deliver Serbia, what is most important, the list of our missing and dead from the Homeland War, was the key, the point, however, even did not do so, so they welcomed him here with a round of applause, a red wallpaper, former President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, HDZ welcomed him, regardless of what he did great evil. A student from Seselj, i.e. Chetnik penitent, as I said. The simple conduct of our political elite towards these criminals is unimaginable to me by the time we're still looking for our dead and missing. I say that as a participant in the Homeland War, and above all as a man who feels that these families are ours. They feel the red wallpaper of Chestnik Shesseljo's feet are thrown. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Assistant. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2403	...has an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2404	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, I don't care who Alexander Vukic was, it's completely irrelevant to this subject. In addition, it can be for one responsible and capable government only our advantage in certain negotiations and overseeing Serbia in fulfilling its obligations. This is about the implementation of the criteria set out in Chapters 23 and 24 that Serbia does not meet, if the Commission set up by the Government, which is what the government actually violates its decision, because if the commission is not meeting, it means that the government's decision is being violated, then we would say that the commission is functional, when we go to negotiations with Serbia know what Serbia has fulfilled and has not fulfilled. Now we're going to these meetings to see Serbian representatives, give them a hand and wish them a happy European path.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2405	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2406	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to say something about this report that the prime minister was so boasting about this morning, which was actually supposed to be an indicator of our European success, but also of our future European pathway. It is necessary to repeat it again first, and I don't know how many times it's enough in HS to repeat it to make it clear to Croatian citizens that we didn't get anything. Just as yesterday it was necessary to say that even if the Law on Reconstruction went the way it is and to invest state resources for the city of Zagreb, that this does not mean that citizens will get restored homes, but will only get construction renewals, so it is now necessary to reiterate that the funds received to us exclusively, as stated in the report itself, are available. That availability can mean our loss. I'm going to say more about the problems I'm worried about about this financial structure. Before that, it should be said that when we talk about this withdrawal of funds, to metaphorically express that Croatia behaves like a drunk teenager who wires money from his own mother who lives in the same house that will end up under the roof because of such behaviour and neglect, and the two of them together on the road. If we are to boast of this success, this good outcome of wire, then we should tell the Croatian public that the better this success sounds, the more generous and larger those billions, that is our deep and long-term failure more clearly. This is a clearer indication that we, who are quoted here, are most in need of generous assistance, so the open question is whether the prime minister of European leadership is also, and explained that he and his party are responsible for this multiannual failure that made us dependent on European aid. Secondly, I'm going to look back on the basic problem, and that's the financial framework. So we talked about 22 billion euros. It is interesting to listen when we talk about these billions, and when we look at what the report says, and that the funds will move on one side, by temporarily raising the EU's own funds to 2% of gross national income, plus borrowing, that we here or, let's be precise, the current Government acts as if this debt is not ours. It's like we're only here to take and allocate those funds, not to make that debt through different levels of repayment affect all of us. Another thing to say is that this report clearly states that there is a possibility that the Commission could, as a final measure, temporarily ask Member States for additional funds that will be proportionate and in any case will not be, be greater than 0.6% of Member States' GDP. What does that mean? This means that the money we are now paying in the EU could be increased about 4 to 5 times, given our history of withdrawing funds from the EU, so that we can get into a situation where at the end of more money we can pay the EU than we can profit from or withdraw from it. Another thing, since time is limited, so I will look back, which this report did not touch with a saying. The report says that part of the countries advocated the leading role of the EU commission and part for a stronger role of the Council. We did not find out from the report where Croatia stands. This is a very important issue because the Council and the EU commission do not have equal legitimacy from citizens of individual EU countries. We also did not know about the rule of law, what Croatia's attitude towards it is. From all we could hear here, we could only conclude that this rule of law, according to which Prime Minister Plenkovic only expressed alarmingly in the sense that the attitude should be unique so as not to upset the public, but it failed him. We could only find out that we don't need the rule of law when we talk about Serbia's EU accession, but we need the rule of law when we talk about Croatia being retired in some cases. We're also interested in what's a compromise solution here. for which the prime minister stood in favour of the rule [[Thank you. Time.]] rights that are not expressed here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2407	Thank you very much, you'll have your chance now, Mr. Troscott will be replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2408	Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Selak Rasdic. You have touched a very good topic because for the first time in the history of its existence, the EU is in charge of the international debt market that has never happened before and one of the best examples of EU borrowing is actually Croatia where it took it. The second borrowing scenario could end well according to a particular economy in the world, for example, it was China, which in 2007, or with debt financed its economy, and it was able to come to the level that at 18% of the world economy today. However, it is a major question whether the EU will succeed with such a policy, i.e. a raised economy, as raised by China. The other problem we see is potential EU pressures to finance this debt in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2409	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak, okay...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2410	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Troscott. Yeah, funding isn't. Not at all simple. [[/Intruder: Selak. Ma'am. Selak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2411	All right, but next time pick it up. It's all right, but next time lift either a bat or a hand. [[I'm sorry.]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2412	Thank you. So, what I wanted to say is that the issue of funding is very important and that in this context we could hear an interesting finding from Prime Minister Plenkovic, which is that all this assistance is very important because of our path to the Eurozone. So the question here is, have we paid you billions of dollars by going urgently and uncritically towards the Eurozone in a situation where it doesn't suit us at all? And another thing I'd like to say is that from all this I've made here, the only conclusion is that modern sovereignty is, in fact, where the prime minister has been giving us a lot of time actually making us financially dependent on the EU, dependent on any external aid, and showing it as our greatest success instead of becoming self-sustaining and helping others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2413	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, with priorities set by Croatia as the country's chairman of the EU Council in the circumstances already known to happen, Brexit, but also new circumstances such as the coronary pandemic. Also with illegal crossings at the Turkish-Greek border. Surely, the earthquake that took place in Zagreb was also circumstances that should have been taken into account, which had to be reacted quickly and put forward priorities, and Croatia proved to be a responsible and reliable Member State. In addition to the 33 legislative acts adopted, 27 trialogues, 156 working groups, 55 ministerial video conferences and, in fact, the first digital presidency. We can say that the important element is that Croatia has also helped return 630 thousand citizens to their countries of origin because this was the best solution during the pandemic of the crisis during the coronary crisis. In addition, what is important is that 22 acts have been adopted in response to the crisis. These include acts concerning the issue of rural development and emergency aid to farmers, providing additional € 360 million to Croatia for the most injured farmers. Also, I must say that it is important that during our Presidency we have held a debate on some non-legislative acts such as the Green Plan, the Strategy was diversity, the strategy From Fields to Tables, which are innovative, which offer solutions and which also possess a great financial potential in themselves when it comes to the green budget, the green plan itself is difficult about 1 trillion euros and I believe that there is a large space for us as well. When we talk about the strategy From field to table, I am pleased with the suggestions that apply especially to short supply chains, and they are extremely important for Croatian domestic peasant product to be placed, above all in the kitchens of public institutions, but also to find its place on the market. I must say that these strategies I mention should not in any way overshadow the reform of the common agricultural policy that is under way, and that I would like to draw attention to the fact that as a Member State, Croatia as a Member State should watch the hope of this project because unfortunately there have been some left-wing EU liberal currents that actually want to stop this reform that is too important for all farmers, as well as for Croatian farmers and replace that reform with existing strategies. In my view, this is not a solution to the team anymore we know that we are a new Member State and I am at the end of my term when the reform was put into parliament over 100 amendments that have been adopted, which I am protecting the interests of Croatian and Croatian farmers where I especially want to highlight the increase in support for young farmers, grants from 50 to 100,000 euros where I want to highlight the specific support I have voted for for our areas in the Homeland War, where I want to especially highlight and protect the financial envelope or direct payments that will remain the same for Croatia as agreed in our accession agreement regardless of the overall European budget. So that's something that is our priority about it should be kept awake and here I pray that there really be great attention and great interest. It is also important to mention, in addition to these EUR 22 billion provided for Croatia, the additional funds that we have chosen for rural development for all European farmers in the recovery fund as well as for Croatian farmers. If we know that the EUR 1 Croatia invests we will get from the EU EUR 4.5, then what we need to see from these financial resources is that new jobs are being opened to increase the standard of our Croatian citizens, to increase wages, to work on generational restoration of Croatian villages. Because if we want to achieve the goals we set for ourselves, which is self-sufficiency in food production and preservation of Croatian villages, then the young must remain in the country, which means that we must to provide adequate support. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2415	Thank you, too. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2416	Here, she would have a question for a respected representative, Petir, precisely because of her concern for agricultural land and the funds currently allocated. Since we have witnessed that so far and so far, and support, or incentives have been used to deepen the corrupt octopus, not to save our agricultural land, what it thinks about this wind power plant affair, which can also be called an affair incentive, since it is just about supporting pastures, among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2417	Mrs. Petyr, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, support are set out and support pillars at EU level, in agriculture this refers to direct payments and rural development, and we only apply what is set out at European level. When it comes to agricultural land, it is good that you reminded the subject because we have just chosen to extend the moratorium to sell agricultural land to foreigners for another 3 years. I think that period is important for the Croatian peasant to enter the land of agricultural land and to develop his agricultural production. When it comes to the affair you're talking about, I think that for this affair and for all the other affairs all those responsible have to answer, they have to be punished so that such things will never be repeated again, not just because of us, our reputation, but because of what we want to teach our children and generations to come, what kind of people they should be. Not a good example, if one politicians are involved in corrupt affairs, and I have to contain it in the root. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2419	Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2420	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to note that in the past, in the previous term, the government has been made a lot for the Croatian village, especially Slavonia, the project Slavonia, and I also believe that in this coming period, along with the rural development fund, a lot will be improved. What I am also pleased that you have listed what has been done during the Croatian Presidency in these exceptional conditions of the Covid crisis, which many of the opposition want in fact to offend and in fact something that is not good in our society that we do not value what is worth in this way but we are trying to offend. Also, many others, many more developed than us, praise that we were dealing with this time of the pandemic with the pandemic itself, and we are not proud of it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2421	Answer, here you go, Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree with you that we should highlight what we do well that more public should be positive examples. It saddens me that one of these topics where we have already found that Croatia has really made great progress and great success is presented in a completely wrong way where some internal and local things are actually used for politics instead of communicating on this which is extremely important and seeing all together how better to position and what else to do to the common forces. What I have seen as a representative in the European Parliament is the fact that you cannot achieve anything alone unless you lobby and gather a wider circle of Member States around you. And they will listen to you regardless of which country you come from if you have good arguments and if you know how to explain it. So I'd like to appeal that we might try to find a consensus here. common language to better help Croatian and Croatian people. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2423	Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr, you have spoken quite the opposite of Agent Selak. I know that one, and I know that you were an advocate in the European Parliament, and I know that Confucius who knows and knows that he knows he's being followed, and who doesn't know and doesn't know that he doesn't know? Now you'd like to sort that thing out a little bit. Here your colleague said that we didn't get anything, that we'd even be paying more money than we are, we could pull out of the EU, and you said that we'd get 4 and a half times 4 and a half euros for one EUR. Now who's, where's Confucius, who's right, I don't get it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2425	Mrs. Devereaux. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I stand behind what I said, of course, that in political debates everyone can say they have their own truth, but I think the figures are inexorable if we know how much we pay and how much we get then there is a very simple and clear calculation. So we're going to get EUR 4 and a half, one less than 4 and a half. So we're going to get more than we're paying, I think it's extremely good, over EUR 22 billion that will come for cohesion and for agriculture and for direct payments and for rural development, for our economy, for our entrepreneurship and crafts are significant funds that we need to do well in order not to repeat some of the previous situations we've witnessed, which was bad programming in 2013. and that somehow led us into a situation where we could spend money without the right measures being taken, now we can't afford it. We have to take the right measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2427	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Gary Cappelli's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2428	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2429	Excuse me, Gary. Excuse me. Excuse me. Mr Pavić Željko, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2430	Thank you very much, I have, I have a question for the distinguished representative Petyr. Today you've given us this really much information that makes us happy, and in particular it will cheer our peasants, our farmers. But before that, we heard this much information about how land is actually leased to privileged people, how incentives are given to people who actually do not care about agriculture. You have been in the EU to parliament, so my question is, did you perhaps propose to the government how to control the allocation of these funds, assign these countries to people who are actually not dealing with this as a model for European countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2431	Thank you very much. Here you go, ma'am. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2432	Well heard, but I can guess what you wanted to ask. I am many times different to governments, because I was a representative when the three governments and governments of the SDP and the HDZ and MOST governments and this last government were always sending proposals that I thought were smart and could help improve our agricultural production and management of agricultural land. In fact, it has been shown in one study which the EU has done that various insurance companies, various interest rates and purchases and purchases in the newer Member States, were then related to Romania and Bulgaria, but was specifically processed and Poland, bought through different agricultural land contracts, and were actually called in the European Parliament a formulation of the abduction of agricultural land. At that point, of course, I reacted because I saw that it was a situation that followed us when the moratorium expired and we had to defend ourselves from it, so I suggested certain things. What I advocate is that the Croatian peasant must have the opportunity to buy agricultural land and primarily those who live [[Intruder: Time]] nearby. [[Intruder: Time, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2433	And now Mr. Gary Cappelli really is, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2434	Chairman, thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have heard today during the day of various debates, it is time to maybe remind ourselves of both tourism and during the presidency and maybe open up a little bit and what it means for tourism to preside over those six months. Of course, first of all, we prepared a great programme that would certainly bring great results in this season, which is a marketing approach during the presidency of the Republic of Croatia and all that, so what we were preparing, which I say, the result unfortunately was not obtained, but one part through this pandemic Covid-19, however, the Republic of Croatia as chairman is in the tourist section, and when I say to the tourist part, so I say that Europe is still the largest number of tourists, which is somewhere around 720 million, so a little more than 50%, is still the leader of tourism. The leader in terms of and employment in tourism, in Europe, each fifth is employed in tourism either directly or indirectly, but mostly directly. In the Republic of Croatia already, we can say every third, fourth. In the Republic of Croatia, around 150 000 are employed in tourism, and it is very important that this aspect is helped by the EU and financed in this crisis situation that will certainly retain labour, kept at the end of tourism as the world's leading industry and that is irrefutable. So, that tourism is practically 3 leading, if I may say so, by the world industry. Of course a lot of conversations have been about changing the structure of the economy. Is tourism as such, as only, the only activity, I can't say that the branch of the economy is an activity, the economic activity that has surfaced in the Republic of Croatia as the most important, strongest, strongest and always doubted it, here and now that this situation of the pandemic has occurred that the first blow will also be the biggest, but because of the lockdown and transport. So that's the two that rocked the most, but we can also now say that it's among the first to come back. So, at this point, we in the Republic of Croatia have 780 000 tourists, of which 200,000 Germans, 120 000 Slovenians, so practically the whole of Central Europe is the most tourists, so the Czech Republic, Slovakia, if we join Hungary and Austria, the majority of tourists come from Central Europe. Investments in tourism, there has been a lot of talk today about whether we get, what we get, whether investment has increased since we're in the EU, etc. In tourism in the last 4 years, 55% of tourism investment in Croatia is growing. 90% of those investors in tourism are EU investors who have entered tourism in the last 5.6 years, so practically since the moment of EU entry, the investment cycle of the EU countries in Croatia has increased and thus is one proof that they have seen us as an equal partner, a safe partner, in a country in which they can invest in an unequivocally speaking figure. So if I'm saying that every year the last, so in 2019, investment in tourism is about a billion and 70 million euros, so we're talking about investments, in building hotels, similar things, so in terms of tourism, investments and investment, these are raised barriers to the quality of investment in tourism. You know when one hotel 3 stars go to the investment of 5 stars, that employment is growing immediately double. I will also not forget the word, which is 388 million kunas free of charge for schooling, finally training staff, quality training of tourism staff, which is 6 centres of competence in the Republic of Croatia, which are all signed and already moving that part of the infrastructure and later direct education of that staff. So, complete restructuring, from training staff to funds that we will continue to receive for this segment and this part, therefore, as regards the tourism sector, which are investments. It is, therefore, important and everything we have done during the Presidency and confirm what we are saying today about tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2435	Thank you very much. We've only got one replica, Mrs. Devereaux. Radolovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2436	Thank you. Dear fellow, yes, you said well, therefore, tourism, we can say that this is a multiplicity economic branch, so over 10% of the employees, over 110 000 employees, we had in 2019 over a billion euros in investments, so we achieved 30 billion kuna of transport, and what we did when the Kingdom of the Netherlands put us on an orange list the other day where their citizens are obliged to go into self-insulation when they return from Croatia, which is a big problem because a large part of them are just hosting in our car camps, it is also a big problem for catering facilities in these camps and facilities, we as a government, we as a country have done one big nothing. So, and so the entire tourist section, HTZ, the Ministry of Tourism but also our entire diplomacy, has achieved one big zero in that area, so I would like to ask you how you comment on what we haven't achieved and done absolutely nothing about implementing the Centre of Competence, I can tell you if you implement be the same as we had the app, then it'll also be none of those competence centers. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2437	Time, Mr. Gary Cappelli, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2438	If we're going to be destructive, then it's nothing, normally, if we're going to be quality-sighted to see that it's still signed for six centres of competence that haven't been done so far, now it's done, and it's already being built on it, so it's all saying, contracts say what we see on the ground. So, as far as this second one is concerned, we are the first country and the basis of our advice, a protocol has been made at EU level as regards cross-border access and arrival to other countries, so much has been praised by Greece, that everyone needs to be seen in Greece, probably all of you are eager to say here, we do not work as Greece, Greece currently has 8% of the traffic since last year and Croatia in the 7th month. about 60 and some percent and at the level of the whole year 45%. These are the figures and I say, the protocol we first made, the Enter Croatia application, the only one we made throughout Europe, there is a yellow line at the borders, if you weren't, you will see, over the order can be ić, everyone who applied in time, so everything is organised and quality at EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2439	- Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic still has a line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to point out that I am extremely pleased that you mentioned competence centres, namely 6 centres of competence, and that here you have informed all of us at what stage is actually the realisation of the building and equipment of the centres of competence precisely because the competence of knowledge and skills and the acquisition of these skills is precisely at the level of vocational education and very important to produce I will say quality staff in tourism that will give their contribution and their pain in the future and certainly in the future I want to get involved in the world of work, get involved in the labour market, personally one of these centres of competence visited and convinced myself of the progress and in the phase in which they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2441	Mr. Cappelli, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2442	Competence centres are also important that finally Slavonia goes not only to work at sea but also to be educated, in Osijek is one of these centres and to stay working and living in the environment in which they live best and in which they know best, so that the goal was to not only be Zagreb but also to be Osijek, to be at sea and on land, because we also care about the development of continental tourism, which on average for the last 3 years has had a growth of around 20 to 25% also through the Slavonia project, tourism has also predicted 575 million kuna for the development of tourism of these 5 counties, so from investments to education, we are looking very much to make it important and that these EU funds, we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2443	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my debate, I will focus on the report on the six-month EU Council Presidency, given that we have been discussing this issue all day since the morning, that we are even away from the topic at the moment. I will use my time to recapture my achievements and activities, or my results, during the six-month EU presidency, and I will certainly start by using the time to personally congratulate you Mr. Minister on all the activities and everything you did during the presidency because we know that the Foreign Ministry was the bearer of a large part of the activity. The same way my congratulations go to the entire government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to emphasise that, and that has already been said by many colleagues so far, but I would like to further repeat that the presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU has really been unprecedented for many things, I would say in the history of the EU. First of all, because it was taking place in the new institutional and legislative cycle, it was also taking place with the new European Parliament, with the new European Commission, but also with the new leaders of European institutions. Of course, the additional framework for the presidency was given new priorities in line with the 2019-2024 strategic programme, as well as the additional framework for negotiations on the new 7-year budget for the period from 2021-2027, but also the migration crisis on the Greek-Turkish border, as well as the uncertainty about the exit of the united, United Kingdom from the EU, and I will certainly repeat that the Croatian presidency has made the pandemic Covid-19 more important and I would say, one maximumly complex dimension, and we must also not forget the devastating earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area on 22 March, which was another unprecedented situation. Because I will remind you that in the history of the EU presidency, it has never happened that the capital of the presidency was affected by such a natural disaster. And I would like to stress that under such circumstances, the Republic of Croatia had to adapt to new situations and, above all, had to adapt to crisis communication and I believe that this was done in a very short time and that the continuity of the work of the council was primarily ensured, of course, with the implementation of the priorities and programmes of the Croatian Presidency. The Republic of Croatia, I must stress this, has focused on the most important priority, and this was primarily the security of citizens and co-ordination of the joint response of EU member states to the crisis, so much about the priorities of Croatia's Europe that connects, Europe that protects and Europe that is influential among other things. Despite all these circumstances, the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled all the most important tasks of the Presidency in various areas of Council action in line with the priorities and the programme and certainly the achievements are visible, and by my assessment in all Council formations and are certainly manifested primarily in adopted legislative acts, including those adopted by a hasty procedure as a response to the covid crisis. The achievements in leading trilogues, agreed council conclusions are also evident, but also in other non-legislative activities. When it comes to activities, I will remind myself that from January to 13 March, so before the pandemic broke out, a whole series of formal physical meetings were held, and after the outbreak of the pandemic, so 5 video conferences of members of the European Council, meetings at the top, 66 informal video conferences, and of the legislative acts of total adoption, agreed 33 legislative acts, of which 22 are related precisely to the crisis caused by Covid-19. Equally 54 adopted conclusions, and according to my assessment, the Republic of Croatia has proven itself to be a member of high operational administrative and diplomatic capacities, and the biggest contribution of the Croatian presidency, according to my assessment, is legacy of Croatian-bound, Croatian-based presidency [[Intruder: Time]] for, for the Zagreb Declaration and for preparations for a conference in the future of the EU. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2445	Mrs. Devereaux. Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2446	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear MPs, you congratulated the work of the government, congratulated the foreign minister, you say the government has met the most important objectives of this presidency's programme, so I ask you to give me one goal from any of the four thematic areas that have nothing to do with the covid, which has been defined in advance and explain to me how this goal has been met? And please, especially point out in which part of the report we are discussing today is this stated and reasoned?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2447	Thank you very much. Here you go, ma'am. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2448	Today, my colleagues and I have explained the goals that have been achieved. I will, therefore, know that there were four basic priorities, one of the essential priorities and the important objectives was to impose and put into the EU strategic programme a topic and a problem of demographics as a problem that more than half of the EU countries face. This is just one of the goals that has been achieved, so we have raised the subject of demographicism to a European level, we have included the subject of demographicism in the EU's strategic agenda for the next 4 years and we have adopted conclusions on this particular issue that you can certainly read, so their name is "The Council's conclusions on the topic of demographic challenge and the way forward" in the EU's Served List.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2449	Thank you, ma'am. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, speaking of the achievements during the presidency, would like to highlight the importance and role of the Republic of Macedonia in opening accession negotiations with the Republic of Macedonia, which has indeed been unfairly in the waiting room for more than 15 years because of a bilateral issue. I think that Croatia has once again shown its friendly position towards both Macedonia and the Macedonian people because such a long-standing problem has finally been solved during our presidency. Of course, we will not stop at this and continue to assist in integration and Macedonia, but also other countries in the environment in EU membership because we believe that stability and functionality depend greatly on this membership. Finally, our EU membership has proved to be particularly in this crisis situation It certainly meant a lot. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2451	Thank you, Mrs. Bedekovic, for just a moment we have to say one thing, Mrs. Oreskovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure at the same time that you started, when you started talking, it was my mistake not to look there. I will give you now, if you allow, the answer, to answer Mrs. Bedekovic, and then I will give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2452	I won't insist, there will be more opportunities for this discussion, the debate has moved on, okay, I respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2453	Okay, okay, my bad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2454	So just a reply to the replica, thank you. As I said, my colleagues, Petir, Croatia, has shown its experience during the Presidency, among other things, and diplomatic capacity, and as for helping the countries that will join the EU, Croatia has and is well known and remembers its experiences during the pre-accession negotiations, and I will thus express myself, the torment through which it has gone through wanting to join the EU and thus access and neighbouring countries through here, during this phase which is now going on for Northern Macedonia and Albania.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2455	Now it's Mrs. Sanja Radolovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2456	Thank you. Many times today, during the debate, we have heard that money as it was said before by a colleague from a position, that we are alluding that these 22 billion will come, that some Martians have collected it, that we behave like this and that we are alluding. The prime minister told the media the other day when he was asked if we had the personnel capacity to withdraw the funds that would be available to us, he said yes, that he had a team that oiled its engine to withdraw those funds. However, I'm going to open your eyes a little bit as we stand today on the human and other implementation potentials in the EU fund management and control system. So let's start with the personnel themselves, what's the fact is that the staff in the entire management and control system of the European Funds, mostly sitting down and working in the intermediate bodies have very low salaries, these are people who have come into the middle bodies from colleges, when they gain experience because of their overpriced salaries, because of the whole amount of work they have to pay, they unfortunately go to large consulting houses where they have a lot more pay than they have in our system. So it must be an absolute priority to reward these people, so that they are adequately paid for what they are doing. Look, it's not normal for some reference in SAFU to work for 6,000 kuna net wages while working at the same time to implement several million-dollar infrastructure projects. It is therefore simply today the Croatian reality in the EU fund management and control system. Let's move on, we talked about several operational programmes today, the fact is that SDP has repeatedly called for the preparation of operational programmes itself, that we haven't adequately prepared them, but I don't see the difference what HDZ has done better today. They were 4 years old, operational programs are still written in the offices in Zagreb instead of using the botto up approach to achieve this field communication with potential users and that our operational programs have simply started to be written according to the projects in the drawer, not the other way around. As far as the application itself is concerned, I do not have to tell you how extensive and complicated the application procedure for EU-funded projects is today. Entrepreneurs and the entire private sector are simply deluded by the fact that their projects continue to be valorised by the fastest finger model, which continues to evaluate the number of activities instead of the very quality of the projects and ultimately give up on these EU funds and makes it easier for them to borrow from the commercial bank. As far as those public sector users are concerned, they are simply freaked out by the application of the Public Procurement Act where the intermediate bodies at the level of the system and the control of supply, control both ex ante and ex post and what happens, what the intermediate body has approved in ex ante, it also does not recognise in ex post control and so unfortunately almost every project in Croatia, especially in the public sector funded by EU funds, each procurement is condemned to financial correction somewhere, let's say, 25% get taxpayers. Today we also did not get an answer to the question that has repeatedly been raised, when we will finally see our national strategy and whether it is true that Croatia has paid 32 million of this national strategy to the European Bank. So I think it would be minimum correctness to get an answer to that question. In another absurd that is also happening to us, for example, we have a number of reserve lists for EU projects on some funding lines and on some calls, I will specifically talk about the preparation of IRI infrastructure projects, the financing of scientific infrastructure, and on the other hand we are 36% of the funds paid, and I still have to tell you one fact, you know why we are on those 36% of the funds paid? Not because we really pulled so much, but because, let's say, the users were forced to pay them 40% of the advances they could get on every project. So for example, all the users for the construction of dormitories where one project represents about 100 million kuna, made them pay their bills 40% of the advance funds just to make the government's statistics look better in numbers and not to show the reality of what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2457	Time, thank you. Mr. Fabianic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2458	Dear fellow Radolovic, I would only like to correct one fact, so you said that HDZ had 4 years of time, I would correct you because we have to add Oreshkovic's government, so they have 5 years and not 4 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2459	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2460	Thank you very much. I hope, thank you for correcting me, what I really hope the ministry, that it will finally get a strong hand, would not be in the skin of Minister Tramišak, I think it is waiting for the most demanding job in this government with the Minister of Finance. What I hope, that all the opposition proposals that come through these individual debates and debates on behalf of the club, as well as through the relevant parliamentary committees, will be respected without regard to whether they come from a parliamentary opposition or a position, and we, as parliamentary representatives, cannot directly influence a series of sublegal regulations that are recently and primarily passed by intermediate bodies, so you have a crazy guide from SAFU which is a big problem for all, so that they apply and implement projects funded from EU funds, I really hope that you will show good will and therefore you will cooperate with us on the satisfaction of all EU fund users. [[- Intruder Radin. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2461	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2462	Dear MPs, here you have mentioned a situation of labour from the ministry, unfortunately as far as we know our public administration and the work of the ministries, we know that most often those jobs are attended by trainees who learn to work and then go to consulting houses. It actually turns out that we, with state resources, train and learn to work our interns, our consultant employees. Do you have any idea how much money the ministry pays to consulting houses for project work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2463	Mrs Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2464	Thank you for asking. Such a report, unfortunately, does not exist, is the fact that, with our camera operating in the management and control system of European funds, it is the fact that, with all the various educations held by our staff in this system, so that the services of the consulting houses are still being used, we have had the opportunity to see it in the media, especially when the resort was held by former Minister Žalac, that she rarely used the services of large consulting houses and, as I have already mentioned, it is paradoxically that we pay them for some time, to teach them to get experience with us, and then when we can finally use them not to spend any more money on the consulting houses, then what we do, then they are taken over by consultants who pay them twice as much as we can offer them in our public sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2465	Thank you very much. He will now take the word on behalf of the motioner, The Minister, Mrs. Crescent. Natasha Tramišak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2466	Dear Chairman, here's a thank you word, dear ladies MPs and gentlemen MPs. Here is also briefly related to the comments made by you on 15 July 2020 on the absorption of EU funds, from this multiannual financial framework in 2014-20, of a total of 10.7 billion euros, we are at 97.6% of the contract of funds, so 10.5 billion euros are currently still being signed, or contracts are being discussed, and currently 54 bids of more than 6 billion kuna are open. So we'll have a lot more contracted funds than it was available in this financial envelope. What's important to mention, it's not 36, but it's 38.2% of the end-user's funds already, and what's been confirmed, we're talking about 30.7% of the data here. You communicated very well and said we have institutional capacity to prepare and implement projects, to verify costs, to verify, to mean for the whole process and procedures, but what is indicative is that we do not yet know the rules and procedures of public procurement. The Croatian public procurement system, i.e. our public procurement law, is in line with the European Public Procurement Directive in 2016, which entered 1.1.2017. This is where major financial corrections occur precisely from adapting what should have been done by end-users in order to comply with the regulation or the European Directive. What is important to mention, I agree with you, however, that people working in the system to implement the EU programme, verifying costs, should be adequately rewarded, that there should be a change in the award system. We'll certainly work on this financial perspective. In the event of a possible increase in the number of employees where this institutional support is needed. What I could see through these days that, or any comments we have received in recent years by the European Commission for PT2, here I am specifically talking about the Croatian Waters and the Environmental Protection Fund, which means the opinions of our audit, or the ARPA, have also managed to improve and develop in a way that the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund as the managing body is the very body that additionally performs the audit, oversees, controls everything that is approved by PT 2. We will certainly take the next step and consider how we can strengthen this capacity and strengthen the absorption of EU funds. What I still want to point out, which is very important to mention, is that we are on July 15, 2020. on the difference in how much we pay in the EU budget, from 2013 to 2020. in a plus 26 billion kuna, which means that according to the finance ministry, the total inflows from the EU budget amounted to 50 billion kuna. When we talk about our obligation as a Member State to pay a total of 24 billion kuna so far, it is a positive difference for which the Republic of Croatia plus payments from the European budget is 26 billion kuna. We are the best in terms of agreement and withdrawal of funds from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. Those problems, we're here somewhere at 32% of the asset verification, and those problems we have here concern exactly the implementation of major infrastructure projects. Large infrastructure projects, also mentioned to you by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, that this perspective was also sought by that implus+3 rule, that we still do not have enough capacity for our end-users to reduce this rule by one year less. It's very important because these major infrastructure projects have been since 2016. and 2017 only at the beginning of the preparation. These are projects for which not all property legal relations have been completed, not all permits have been issued and they are late, late with implementation and withdrawal of funds although they have contracts from 2016 and 2017. We plan to verify, by the end of this year, everything I said earlier, an additional EUR 850 million, so almost another 6 billion that should be entered into our budget. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2467	Thank you, too. Mrs. Devereaux. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2468	Dear Minister, I'd like to actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2469	And Mrs. Devereaux. Benchcock, not Nikolic. I'm sorry, there's been a misunderstanding, ma'am. Here you go. Give it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2470	Yeah, okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2471	Ma'am. Minister, I hope you will be able to answer us because your predecessor did not want to answer the question specifically of what we will get from the World Bank for 32.5 million kuna as much as is worth their consulting contract for making so-called. Analytical basis for a development strategy that is not yet over and when are we going to see a development strategy? And the second question, the second question, or comment, relates to what you said that our end-users still do not know the public procurement rules well. I must say that in many cases, when it comes to corrections, it is not about the bonds of the Public Procurement Act that are, which are, which are, that are, getting corrections because they go according to the rules, therefore, for non-mandants of public procurement. Those rules, you must know how often they change. Just tell us how much they've been in this financial perspective. We've changed times, not to mention how many times is the Central Finance Agency [[Time, Mrs. O'Donnell. Bencic/]] And the bargaining changed the interpretations around [[Intruder: Time]] rules, e.g. discrimination, etc. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2472	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2473	I'd just like to point out that you're before Mrs. Devereaux is here. Bencic started talking, giving a sign that the time would return to the beginning, 15 seconds were kind of spent, and it didn't, it didn't come down or came down, so the question would be finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2474	Ma'am. Oreshkovic, I said come back time and I didn't follow if it came back. You followed?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2475	Yes, yes, I followed, and I noticed that time was not restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2476	Do you have anything else to go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2477	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2478	Okay. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2479	So here are the respected MPs when we talk about the World Bank's consulting services we're about to have a meeting to comment on once again on the national development of a strategy that is in the final stage. However, there were some data on projections and state budgets that had to be updated, all related to the coronary pandemic of the virus, which certainly had an impact on the budget. So, the national development strategy is likely to be proposed for adoption soon, perhaps for the next month or two days, right at the adoption meeting. As far as other consulting activities are concerned, there are some other details that we will examine in detail, which were mandatory to deliver under these contracts that were previously signed. What you asked about the corrections of financial, national common rules for all users of European funds are very clearly known to all users, I am now telling you from the point of view of users, so we did not get any corrections or, if anything, they were minimal irregularities. It is very important that users themselves communicate with bodies in the system. [[/Intruder: Thank you, beautiful, weather.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2480	Ma'am. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2481	Thank you. Here, I'll answer to Mrs. McNally. Bencic, SAFU's latest instructions for public, for users, is therefore on 6.7.2020. They won't, they rarely change. And what is even more frantic when we, as users, ask for a concrete opinion on the issue of e-accounts, subcontractors, the introduction of those in, therefore in this Public Procurement Treaty, the Ministry of Economy, their administration, which is actually responsible for interpreting the law itself, gives us the exact same interpretations that we receive in writing by the intermediation bodies, specifically SAFU. When you say, therefore, that the users are not well-informed enough, I can tell you what I've been doing all morning. As Head of the University of Pula, I explain to SAFU 6 hours today that we had to put a stone Kanfanar in the cost of public procurement, which they approved in ex-ante because they were, therefore, looking for a conservative, and they did not recognise it as an answer and threatened us specifically as the University of Pula a 25% correction of 52 million for the purchase of the Kanfanar stone. So these are the absurdities of our system, control and management from EU funds [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2482	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2483	Dearly noted, here I agree with the comment that there are some other things that need to be commented on, working in the system. So the constant improvement of the system happens, and there's exactly why you're changing some rules. What is important to know, and probably also known by the European Public Procurement Directive, is our Public Procurement Act, which is the principle of transparency and the principles of equal market treatment for all economic operators, in the case of a particular type of stone material. That's why it's being further controlled and checked and there could have been an opportunity for someone else to be the supplier of that same stone without being the company the only one you've listed. So there are situations that the European Commission is particularly concerned about, and this is the principle of equal treatment, the protection of competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2484	The violation of Mrs Radolovic's Rules of Procedure, you must state the article, the reason and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2485	Yes, that Article 238, the carrying out of false allegations, I didn't say that it was any kind of company, I said which stone type is it, so it's a stone canfanar, not a particular company, but it's tied to a quarry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2486	Let's move on. Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2487	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs have already set out several times here with the demystification of certain things around these 22 billion euros, to explain to the public, so I will repeat this once again. So, that's not the money our Prime Minister brought to our house after one lunch or a work dinner and in one bag, and now the billions of Euros will share you with everyone who needs it. First of all, these billions of euros are in the range of seven years, so let's cut them by 4.6 billion that we're going to pay in that period, so it's about some 17 billion euros at our disposal. The money from the EU is therefore monitored by several levels, so one is what we're being located, so this is, let's say, EUR 22 billion as agreed on for various projects and the amount of funds paid. About the amount of funds paid to end-users we have until recently been the worst in Europe, and here we have now heard from the minister that the percentage of 38% is on paid-out funds, that from these 22 billion would therefore be somewhere at 8 billion euros if we apply that percentage to this amount. I'm going to take this opportunity out, and I'm going to make some examples of using those funds and some, perhaps, a proposal. For example, some good examples, so last year are an example of science, last year 3 women received together some EUR 10 million through some European grants, so here is Iva Tolic from the Ruđer Bošković Institute, Jadranka Šepić from the Institute of Oceanography, Jasenka Gudelj from the philosophical whether, art history. So, some of the most prestigious grenades in the EU. So there are good examples we can say and a free individual, there would be even more if at the places of rectors and university administration we didn't have various Borasa, their and their click. There, then, at universities, we need world-renowned scientists who will encourage people like this and projects like this. So I want to stress in science is an extremely important metricocracy, world standards, world criteria, when the system is regulated according to these principles then at the head of institutions like this there will be no place for such people. Another example of withdrawal, a good example for you is Srebrnjak Special Hospital, Dr. Nogalo, a contract for a 60 million-euro infrastructure project, but obviously it will not be realised, here we know that already late, some have gotten involved in hospital management and some private interests that have then driven those who know how to realise such projects. One proposal, so I will take the opportunity to say that this EU package for the next generation is therefore 3 pillars, one of which is, in addition to this crisis recovery mechanism, this package is also intended for the start of the economy, support, here and climate neutral economy, etc. One of the ideas with which we mentioned the initiative here and during the campaign before this election, with which we would be among the first in Europe, it is now and in the public advocates a Dutch entrepreneur who has been living and working in Croatia for 10 years, and this is the idea that Croatia opens its doors by introducing special visas. digital nomads. These are mainly IT experts, experts from various creative industries that can work from anywhere. So they work far away, travel around the world, and in this way they'd open up an opportunity for them, they're mostly high-paying people that we can enable in this way in our country to live and work legally. Estonia is the first country in Europe to introduce it, here, can we be the second? These measures are also important in a situation like this where people, in a situation like this of a global pandemic, when a large number of workers in the world are working at a distance, can we be, take advantage of this opportunity, be a country from which our people won't run, but on the contrary, we will attract these people to take advantage of all the benefits our country has, so their life is pleasant for them. And on the contrary, there may be a place where people will come to live and work. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2488	Mr. Joseph Salapic is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2489	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, much is said today, more or less negative on this side of the opposition which I am personally sorry for, I would dare say I have followed in several processes the European path of Croatia here in the Croatian Parliament for 10 years and I can say that Croatia has made all the difficulties we have had, a big job. As a recent State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, I would like to congratulate not only the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs but also all other honorable and valuable young people, educated, top experts who prepared this big job before the start of the Presidency of the European Council. Unfortunately, no one mentioned them specifically, it's a large team at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the judiciary, EU funds, regional development, the Ministry of Agriculture, education, environmental protection, so that I don't forget someone, don't be offended. So out of respect for these young colleagues, I'll tell them thanks. As far as importance is concerned, I can say that this was a historic moment for Croatia. Unfortunately, the coronary crisis, a major health crisis, has done its part. Croatia's respected colleagues and colleagues, did not embarrass themselves in their work, Croatia did what it could. It is not mentioned that at the crucial moment of the start of the pandemic, we affected the rapid adoption of two key documents, two initiatives, that is 3.2. and 3.2. + and these are rapid measures to prevent the economic and social consequences of the crisis. We've been going back to some kind of political flossula, even a lot of things beyond the subject and nothing in the subject. I think that these 22 billion euros is a great opportunity for Croatia, it is not a gift from the sky, it will depend on the preparation of project programming, on the ability of local self-government, on our mayors, mayors, mayors, state officials and all those who have received the trust to work on these jobs. I believe we're ready to have top experts. The elections have passed for the European Parliament in 2019, some colleagues who today are extraordinary and can even say they have had the opportunity to be candidates for the European Parliament, so they have not passed the electoral threshold. So everyone said something about their European policy and their way, but it didn't work out. I'm not gonna name anyone on purpose. There are some new young colleagues from the SDP, I would like to remind you of one situation, and that was 2014, Deputy Prime Minister Grcic Branko and Minister of Regional Development, Labour Minister Miranda Mrsic, a known scandal with the affair Software, where it was publicly communicated, and that's what I haven't invented yet, instead of money from EU funds, the government is pulling citizens by the nose. This is your problem with the lack of unprepared money withdrawal to encourage the employment of young people where about 40 projects fell into the water overnight and then someone replicates and then I'll read to you what government spokeswoman Zoran Milanovic said about the situation, how the public rebelled, especially young families, came across money from some fund that is not at all in charge of it but doesn't matter, important that these young people continued to receive 1600 kuna. It is not now an attack on the party, but merely an indication that there are possible problems in each government because your government has twice had responsibility for Croatia, so voters have estimated whether it is okay or not. It's a fair political game. So there's no evil at all. That's the big problem, one big wheel that started spinning in 2013 and we respected colleagues and colleagues, are no longer so young a member but we have 7 years of experience. Mr. Plenkovic did not participate in the Brussels meetings at these last conferences he carried the money to himself but worked for Croatia, for all citizens and citizens, and for those left and right and all of us here, meaning to degrade the big deal, whether we are going to meet that goal in 3 and 7 years, that is now the responsibility of our government but without any argument, to say that it is nothing, I appreciate you, I listened to Mrs. Bedeković, a professor who teaches it in theory and knows a lot about it, but I believe that you know that there are possible problems that can appear in walking. It is a simple life and our preparations, our preparations are something that is very important for Croatia and I believe it does not need this great malignancy just because the Prime Minister is Mr Plenkovic and full of all Plenkovic and no one is full of the mouth that our people expect of us. I think they expect a safe, European, healthy Croatia and I will return again because my time is over, to my young people at the Ministry of Justice. Trained, speaking more foreign languages, we did not embarrass ourselves in Brussels for none of them, and I am the first one to give support to those who work for their country and we should finally say goodbye to these low-level politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2490	The first breach of the Rules of Procedure has Mrs. Credentials. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2491	Thank you, Chairman. Injury of the Rules of Procedure On 238th indent 5, the MP demeaned and insulted other MPs. In fact, none of us today were maligned and I felt like you were talking to me just by giving reasoned discussions and remarks to the report because it was precisely the topic of the agenda. So I've been listening all day to the replicas that you've been telling the representatives of your own club, congratulating each other, congratulating the government, you haven't said anything specifically, and it bothers you that on the other side of the assembly you have an informed, well-advised and constructive opposition that wishes to point out what is not in this country is wrong. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2492	Ma'am. Nuts, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... No, no, ma'am. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Radolovic, come in, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2493	I thank you, Chairman, here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238, therefore, the representative is false. In fact, he accused several Greek counterparts, or former Greek minister, of former prime minister, of dragging citizens by the nose, at the time that youth unemployment in Croatia was almost 50%, I personally had the first job in my life on that level of professional training for work without having a working relationship, I worked for 1600 kn and it was an honor. I'm glad you said you've been on high-ranking payroll for ten years and we haven't all been on that opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2494	Mr. Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2495	Dear Vice President, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Art. 238, ma'am. Representative Oreshkovic constantly abuses the Institute of Rules of Procedure. So a lawyer who should know what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is, and I have not spoken to you, nor have I mentioned to you, and the fact that you have recognized yourself in it, you are simply giving each one of you, I have no idea in which I have addressed you at the moment, I am asking you to get a warning, but ten times using the institute, she already deserved it yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2496	We're not giving any warning, we're going to go further Mr. Ante Bacic, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2497	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Let's calm our passions down a little bit and maybe put the debate back on the table, that's all. The report on the activities and results of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council and what we have brought together, which is the report from the extraordinary meeting of the European Council, which was first informed by the Prime Minister himself and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, together with the Minister, welcomed us here. In the debate, here are colleagues normally from the opposition, but here we have gone, perhaps a little bit too far and too deep, perhaps we have used too many concrete results and results and programs and projects, which may not be bad and good that the new minister is here with us that she explained exactly about the percentages and withdrawals of the European funds and which means agreed and which means that we can certainly have answers but I think we need at least at the end of this debate in these last few individual debates, to the extent of the problems itself, to the extent of what is right in front of us, which is just a report. In the preparation and reading of this report, where you have criticised enough that there may be some unnecessary data on how many meetings, how many cultural events and what was related to the presidency, for the Presidency of the EU Council by the Republic of Croatia, I think it is good to cover it, that it is well covered in this report itself, that it is good to see what has happened in the coming and past months. As far as the presidency itself is concerned, as much as there has been negativity here in some kind of debate, I think we finally have to agree that it was successful. Some say that only the presidency may have been too ambitious, but when under the quotes of a small state or a small actor on a big world or European market, then perhaps ambition is not a bad thing. That is why this Presidency has marked 4 topics, which is Europe which connects, a Europe that protects, an influential Europe, a Europe that develops. Comparing the programme itself when preparing for this debate, comparing the programme itself that we presented before the presidency itself and this report itself, I cannot agree with my colleagues that we did not meet the conditions and objectives that we imposed on ourselves when preparing for self-presidency. We should also normally thank everyone for the executive, but at the parliamentary level that has been being prepared, Salapic also mentioned many colleagues by the ministries who have spent many days and months preparing the presidency itself and should definitely thank them. I will single out only a few segments of this report which I think is important to highlight because it is very extensive and normal for each of these topics, each of these 4 which we have covered and we can certainly discuss what they have brought for the Republic of Croatia and what it will mean to us, but I think that ultimately something that we can get out of everything, and that is this part of Impact Europe. In this presidency, it was also important to highlight the influential Croatia. Influenced Croatia on the topics we wanted to impose, which is a topic specifically related to the EU enlargement itself, a topic that has been very neglected in the last year, two days at European tables and European offices. What our Prime Minister has returned, what the Republic of Macedonia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have returned and what we can definitely say is that a decision has just been taken to open accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, and a final negotiating chapter with Montenegro has been opened and an outstanding topic of the open road of BiH is very important to us, the EU. Why does it matter? We talked a little bit about this, unfortunately, but it's very important because here we mention the withdrawal of the European funds, we mentioned tourism and competition and exports and imports, all of this applies to this particular topic. Why we care about stability in Southeast Europe, why we care that all the countries that are in our environment are on the same path as we are, why it is important that we stand out here as leaders and as someone who will help our neighbourhood but also Southeast Europe develop in the right way, which will ultimately help us normally. I think it's a very important topic that we should have discussed further, but unfortunately here for the sake of time we can't, but here I believe there's going to be an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2498	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first line has Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly mentioned the subject that was sub-represented today during this debate, it is about our neighbouring state of BiH, and I would like to add the position of Croats in BiH. We have witnessed recently, but also in previous months and years of repeated warning by Cardinal Puljić and Bishop Komarica of the truly unenviable status of Croats in BiH who are a constituent people, but it seems that the constituent people are only on paper and not in reality. If you look at the figures they are really black and we can say that if we even consider all the information that is said and about some hidden ethnic cleansing of Croats from BiH, which is unacceptable. That's why Croatia's role is important to take care of Croats in BiH, but also to care completely about BiH's position as a good neighbor and its better positioning in this part of Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2500	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2501	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petir, thank you for this replica, you have made a good point, and we should always stress that, let's just look at the last 4 years of this government and the last 4 years of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. I think it's the only politician in the EU who's ever raised that question. A question that is very important to us and related to the consistency of our people and our countrymen there but normally and related to resolving issues from the electoral law itself and other outstanding issues which are being suffocating our people in another country, in BiH. This is definitely the great credit we have to give to the Prime Minister who never at any conference, summit or meeting has ever left out that topic and has always put it on the table and I think it's the only way BiH's security and constitutionality, which is the European path that we're standing for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2502	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2503	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, related to the Republic of Croatia in the context of an influential Europe, I am pleased that you mentioned the enlargement as an imposed topic, especially the problem of BiH and, in particular, the problem and concern of the Croats in BiH. I will also remind you that one of the important topics which the Republic of Croatia as its chairman, has imposed on the EU, I will reiterate and reiterate and remind you and other colleagues and colleagues, is the demographics which, as a problem, as a challenge and as a question right on the initiative of the Republic of Croatia, have been able to join the EU strategic programme for the next 5-year period, and during the Presidency, the issue of demographics has been debated very much at different levels and very important conclusions have been reached at EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2504	Thank you. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2505	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I deliberately compared these two concepts of influential Europe and influential Republic, just for the sake of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is not by chance that the secretary in the Council of Europe is coming right from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is not by chance that the Vice-President for Demography of the European Commission is coming right from the people of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ, that is all we have fought for. And all these criticisms that we're getting from the opposition, I think what's normal and positive, for that very influence of little Republic of Croatia and international recognition of what we fought for in the '90s to get, we take it lightly, we take it lightly, we think it's normal, that it's normal to have a vice president of the commission, that it's normal to have that kind of influence on the EU, it's definitely not normal, it's a credit to us here, but also to the government and our ministers and all of this we've shown in the last 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2506	Thank you, too. And finally Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2507	Replication to MP Bačić. So, he keeps coming all day from this side of the pay phone, and from now on, we have to agree that it was a very successful Croatian EU presidency. We don't have to do anything as an opposition, we don't have to agree, it's up to us to criticise, of course, and to praise what's good, but the point of democracy is that we have a different opinion, so we have the right to express it, so all the time this thing tries to impute the opposition that it has to agree with what journalists had to boast about the EU presidency. From that perspective I said what I think would be good and something about the Zagreb summit, I said what I think was bad. And instead of a report that reads "the beginning of the presidency on the international scene is solemnly marked by a concert of baroque music that fits into the baroque cycle of the most famous Brussels hall of Bozar, which, along with the baroque repertoire, was a novelty in the concerts marking the beginning of the presidency", I would like to hear the minister and our position around Orban and the growing authoritarian tendencies in Hungary and what we have done as presidents [[/Intruder: Mr. Tomašević's time.]] Chairman of the EU Council? [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2508	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2509	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I cannot agree with you precisely because of this concert, which is the very basis and concept of the EU, which is peace and culture. The peace of European countries and the culture of European states, so I think that one presidency can certainly begin with such a concert. I'm not even giving criticism to the opposition for criticism. However, it is normal and it should be normal and in a document like this, we should look for faults and how to improve it. But I'd like to have this stimulant HS bring back one different discourse, and why? And that's a positive discourse, so we can go back a little bit to our society and between our fellow citizens a little bit and a little bit of a positive attitude with our own country, admire ourselves if we have to and with our own government, admire all our achievements and not always look for hair in the egg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2510	Thank you, too. And now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2511	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing these two documents for almost nine hours. I would refer more to the funds provided by the Republic of Croatia at the extraordinary European Council summit, which has been provided by the Republic of Croatia with over €9.4 billion in the next 4.g. That is to say, with EUR 12.6 billion in the multi-annual financial framework, a total of 22 billion. It is not important here, nor should we expect that the opposition, government and ruling applause, nor should we thank anyone, but the fact that those 22 billion did not belong to the Republic of Croatia just because we are a member of the EU, but because as a state and through the presidency, and before that, and also through the government's engagement, above all, the Prime Minister, was imposed as a respectable player aware of his size in the European space and should be highlighted because I say it would not come in itself, it could have come in itself much less. But more important than our argument, or it's commendation, or it's objectively what the Republic of Croatia belongs to is the fact that it's in front of us now in the next 7 years. A serious job, to spend those 22 billion right there to boost economic development, the development of the Republic of Croatia. There are two serious documents before the government in the next few months, first of all, if we talk about 9.4 billion euros in the recovery plan of Europe or Europe next generation, by the end of October to develop a national recovery plan that needs to be recognised by the national programme to invest in Croatia's economic recovery, which will still feel the effects of the COVID 19 crisis caused by the virus, which will allow the fastest way to maintain the liquidity of Croatian businessmen, Croatian entrepreneurs and which will preserve jobs. And that's what we need to concentrate on, focus and less on this day-to-day political or to say political bickering, it's a serious job, spend 9.4 billion euros if we know we're in the past 4 months. In order to save the Croatian economy, we will invest more than 6 billion kuna in the preservation of over 600,000 jobs and I would expect that we will already discuss the programme in September. On the other hand, there are 12.6 billion euros, which are available to us for the next 7 years, if we know that approximately 5 billion kuna is our payment in 7 years in the European budget, we still have a lot of money left. At one euro is about 4.5 euros we will secure from the European budget and there is a need for a national development strategy by 2030, to bring operational programmes that must be in line with our EU priorities and priorities. What we expect in HDZ and what is already mentioned here is that these funds will have to encourage, above all, this regional development that we talked about today the most. I would first and foremost single out, it is somehow the nearest, that traffic, the capital transport infrastructure that involves the completion of the construction of a low-level railway, which includes the construction of a multimodal platform in Split, Omis, which includes the construction of roads in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, from Dubrovnik to the border with C. Gora and a fast road across Peljesac. A number of ports that are defined precisely for the transport of Croatian islands. These are the topics on which we must insist and monitor whether the Government, whether a resolute ministry on which it is a huge responsibility to spend these funds, indeed these programmes, and projects and these plans harmonize with EU plans, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2512	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomašević has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2513	Well, here's a short replica to MP Bačić, another representative to Bačić. I agree with you that despite the 22 billion euros being secured, it still means nothing from the perspective because it is a great task to spend them. What we're going to spend, how we're going to spend, how effective we're going to be in this spending, which will be our priorities, and that's what the ruling majority and the opposition have to do, and from that perspective, I hope that they're going to go really into the green transformation of the economy, primarily these infrastructure projects that you've been saying, to me there's absolutely a priority investment in the rail infrastructure that we've left behind in the last two decades, but actually three decades we've neglected them from that perspective, really when we look at what all the money is spent, what our rail system looks like in relation to the rail systems of some other EU member states, I think we have a lot of work to do and The debate in this House will depend on how this money will be spent. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2514	Mr. Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tomasevic, I agree with you, so that that 22 billion or much less will be focused on this green plan, so if you want in this context and the traffic that is in the function of sustainable development and the part relating to maritime transport, the largest part of the railway if the first 20 years of this century have been focused on capital investment in transport infrastructure, the championship has been focused on road infrastructure. We are facing large investments in more acceptable forms of transport such as railways, I would not in any way rule out the rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway which is one of the basic projects in the navigation of internal waters and also sea transport of port construction. These are the elements on which we must make what you have said and the opposition and the ruling, insist much more than on these jumps and try to trick others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2516	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2517	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow ministers. I think this debate on reports from the European Council is one good newspaper, and they have always caused certain reactions so far, they were alive, and that's good because there was a time when we had prime ministers who went to meetings of the European Council but never came to the Parliament and said anything they agreed and said or helped this country. that they helped and at least helped themselves. So from 2013 to 2016, we have not had any report from anyone, and this practice has just been introduced by Mr Plenkovic in the past term and there has been no meeting of the European Council that he has not come here and said what has been discussed and that MPs not only through their bodies and parliamentary committees that have certain contacts with EU bodies, they know what they are talking about, but that we all have certain information. So I also experienced today's report, in which the president wanted to say what was held at the meeting of the European Council on 17-21. 7th and what that means for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, as before, the opposition once again wanted to do what it normally does, it is to focus on what is most important and what is the result of just one such meeting, and only to listen to the story of Croatia and Serbia's relations, which in the EU at all, and which should have become some sort of moment of today's debate, and then it is where our colleagues from the Most know everything about it. The people who are here tried to enter at least to the European Parliament failed, they are eager to enter, they have failed because the people simply did not recognize them as their contribution to anything. Today I heard that they are pleased that there are even opposition in the Croatian Parliament and that it is quite ok and we can respect it. What can the opposition do? He can do what he did today, meaning criticise, criticize, invent, and lie from a fellow believer, falsely express the facts against a colleague because they obviously have some right to do so, okay. What was important was happening long ago in all the important moments when we talk about European policies or the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, from the recognition of the state itself, membership in the UN, membership in the Council of Europe, NATO and the completion of the HDZ negotiations carried the largest part of the burden except for the formal entry in 2013 of 1.7 into the EU, which was then carried out by the SDP. It was simply you who dealt with these topics at a higher level than what we heard here today on the side of the Most. When they saw that there was no relationship between Croatia and Serbia, they tried to insert an exclusive economic belt as a topic. Only for those of you who are from MOST to tell you that we discussed the subject in the previous term, that 20 MPs voted for it, not all of them from the Most, did not vote even though they suggested we adopt it, with a large majority rejected. So the story is something for some new MPs to get excited about, the story of an exclusive economic belt. Just so you know the facts. As far as the amount is concerned, that 22 billion is clearly said twice as much as we have so far and a little more than that double and certainly that the division of how it was intended certainly in that grant part has an effect on our budget of the state, and then on everything that you need to cover. Let's not fool ourselves that it's going to be easy because the 10 billion we have right now are creating a problem, but all the happiness and the 10-year period to spend 7 plus 3 allows us to spend it. And we're on our way to sort it out. I'm sure that's how it's going to be with this 22 billion in the next period. We live in a little different times than it was a few years ago, but the demeaning of the ministry's efforts, the government itself, that these funds are being realised simply has nothing to do with what it means to us. You can't get 85% of something on the market today, anywhere, there's no institution that's gonna give it to you, and we have to appreciate it at least I know about myself or any local leader who knows something about it. And as for the problem of Mariscina, it is the problem of the SDP and I do not want us to have it in HDZ on our necks because it is the founder of the county, the city of Rijeka, the Rijeka River Cleanness and the municipality of Viskovo. All SDPs and let the mayor and their bodies solve the problem to the satisfaction of the citizens, but those who attack it say what when Marišcina is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2518	Mrs. Radolovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2519	Article 238 has been injured, as it knows for both Kastijun and Mariščina, the representative is the one who has identified the location and the technology used, as well as the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund itself is a co-signator of the contract, so please do not tell us here that the fault is on local and regional units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2520	I've told you many times that these are replicas, this time you haven't even called for a replica, this was a replica, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure I decided not to give any notice today. [[Intruder: I have reported a replica.]] Please, Boris, Mr. Boric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or Replication?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2521	That the breach of the Rules of Procedure because Mrs Radolović, if I understand correctly, means she is not telling the truth, so Article 238, we all know that the Centre for Waste Management Marišćina is owned by the County of Primorje-goranska, the city of Rijeka, the municipality of Viskovo and the purity of Rijeka, and there is no doubt at all. They manage, they're the ones who built it, they're the ones who boasted about it, and today they have a problem and they're trying to move it to some level. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2522	And it doesn't work because it was a replica. I'm not giving any warning today, just today. Here you go, Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2523	Dear Chairman, I have applied for a replica not for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Boric is not here, we do not have here the favor of the Prime Minister who has been to brief us on European affairs because it is governed by the law in the co-operation of Parliament and the Government. So it's a commitment primarily regardless of who the prime minister is, so that's something arranged, which is governed by the law. As for Mariscina, I signed a letter last week to Mr. Coric where I asked this Marišcina to be closed just as owners. It was a project that went across the EU, through the Environmental Protection Fund and where not a whole series of things are respected. That we are the owners, because we invested as a county on behalf of the units of local self-government. in one project that failed, and yet the HDZ Government is responsible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2524	Thank you, thank you. Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2525	Thank you. A colleague Fabianić will be here to talk about it because it is a subject that bothers us all, only all those who, you said, asked to close. All right, just tell us where the city of Rijeka is going to drive its garbage because that bucket can last one or two days in winter and not one in summer so you'll have to tell the citizens that we'll drive and that's the problem that solves the Marine. You tell everyone else where you're locked up, they'll know all the dumps so we know... We'll drive because we're currently in rehab. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The owners also manage this announcement of yours that you will collect a ton from 475 to over 1100 to drive garbage from all units of local self-government almost by a ton, i.e. For a kilo, giving one kuna is something we'll discuss this whole period while you apply it and you said you'd be out of 1.10. It won't just start because it's obviously something that's a result of incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2526	- Mrs. Crescent. Charger's Martinchev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2527	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we have been listening all day and we have been able to read the report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on an extraordinary meeting of the European Council, and we really should thank the President, commend him, congratulate him, because the Republic of Croatia has received the highest amount per capita and aid intensity that the Member States have won during these negotiations. So the maximum amount, 22 billion euros are available to the Republic of Croatia over the next 7 years, which is 2 times what we had in the previous period. In fact, with the classic this multi-annual financial framework, we have an extraordinary recovery package. We have funding, so-called funding. Traditional policies, they refer to cohesion, agriculture, etc. but also modern policies, research, innovation, digital transition and more. What we have seen with great expectation and listened to is the amount of national co-financing. In fact, there were talks just over half a year ago that this amount might be twice as much as we have so far, but we stayed at 15%, as well as the period and time in which we are obliged to use the funds. So we're still entitled to N+3, so 3 years after the end of that perspective. However, we were the only ones who had only one financial perspective available in the EU, and they were all certainly the reasons why we got the largest amount. I am pleased that we can read that in the coming period we will have a simplification and a reduction of administrative burdens. Namely, the number of programmes has been reduced, only 7 chapters will be financed in the coming period. What I would like to point out today, I am sorry that there is no Minister of Regional Development is what follows in the coming period. Namely, the expectations and expectations of our citizens, all those who prepare different applications, are very large. All those cities, municipalities, counties, institutions, small or medium-sized entrepreneurs who could not finance their projects in the previous period, expect to do so in the next. Likewise, all those projects that have started and had opportunities to finance themselves in the previous period but for different reasons have not achieved this, expect these 22 billion euros to be able to finance their projects. For example. In our coast, there is a big problem and in other parts of the Beautiful Ours, realisation of the project of the drain system. Namely, the town of Vodice has a solution for purification and the first stage and for the second stage at the end all the documentation is required. There is some information from the Croatian waters that there are already 20 projects that are fully ready and waiting for the green light to go into competition and negotiation and some 100 and more projects of different sizes that expect it in the next period. Of these seven chapters, that's where we can do it, I'd say we get under two. In the third chapter, we have natural resources and the environment and we also have those related to security and defence, migration, the single market, innovation, digitisation and cohesion. So here's my appeal to all those who will negotiate and talk in the future about not forgetting about those projects that could have been financed in the previous period but here's because of the complexity of the documentation, they're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2528	- Mrs. Crescent. Glamuzine, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2529	Honored Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. He's constantly bragging about how we got the biggest aid per capita in the EU, yes, but why is that? Because we obviously need the help most because, according to some of these relevant indicators, we have turned out to be the worst country in the EU, which is the result of the state's leadership in the past term. So to brag about the team that we got the most, maybe it's not really an instructional one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2530	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2531	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I stressed that the main reason was that we were the only country that had only one EU financial perspective available.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2532	Mr. Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2533	Thank you very much. Comrade Yurichev, here you have heard, the SDP advocates that we should have won the least to make them look better then. It's just that he doesn't trust a man who listens because we've been listening to them for the past few years and they don't wonder themselves how they went, it's just a chance to show what we know. And what you pointed out, the financial capacity of local self-government is something that needs to be strengthened and this in the next period because it's going to be difficult to realize exactly that amount and that's the experience we have in these seven years, it's definitely going to have to be solved through certain projects i.e. and the government's own programs. What I wanted to say is that this story about projects is something that interests all Croatian citizens, and we have shown that we can do it these seven years. 70% of cost verification shows that we can realize these 10.7 billion by 2023 and that's how it's going to happen. I think what we inherited, those poor 6% of the SDP government, clearly showed the failure of some people who were dealing with funds and today are the loudest critics of this result.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2534	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2535	Thank you very much. It's true, fellow Boric. This is why numerous projects could not be realised, nor could they be run because the SDP government had badly negotiated, e.g. It was not possible to build a kindergarten or a firehouse or a health home in the city or village of over 5,000 inhabitants, precisely because there was no hearing at the time when everything was discussed and negotiated. How much did we withdraw? We pulled great, since we only had a 9.9% contract when this government came and took responsibility for the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2536	Now it's Mr. Vice President Ante Sanader's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here at the end of today's debate there's nothing more to say, but here's to finding out the facts. I think these are very important two points of the agenda that we have united, which is good and which are for us EU members after 7 g. of EU membership must be important. One of the colleagues here said it was also a legal obligation, it is not a good will of this prime minister, but we also had a past SDP government that did not do so and I think it should be commendable to Prime Minister Plenkovic for introducing it. He introduced because he wants the Croatian and Croatian citizens to feel like European citizens and to bring it closer and to popularise European topics and that these important events and talks that are taking place in both the European Parliament and the European Council and the European Commission are approaching our citizens because our citizens were watching and during the time of our presidency, they watched this session, and they certainly came up with some information that they may not have had the opportunity to hear in the media section of the public and this pro and this is the opposite. Here, we heard here and the finding that the only task of the opposition is to attack, which I don't think is really, we should work together here on good topics, we should praise together what's good, together maybe a little more opposition than by ruling out what's not good, and that should make sense because the common goal is why the citizens chose us here to do good for the Republic, to make a better life for our citizens, that's basic and fundamental. Experience has also shown from the past term that those who cried a lot didn't even come to the assembly, and they were the loudest here, reported, replicated every debate, jumped, made trouble, and today they're not here in the assembly. So I think it's a lesson that it's not the most important thing after all. The most important thing is that we try to make the best for our citizens together because that's why they set us up, and they didn't set us up here to fight and do bad things. In the Republic of Croatia, it is such a condition that it is most difficult to acknowledge success. With this and this result, Prime Minister Plenkovic has shown that he has the strength in the EU, regardless of what some individuals have disproved and disrespected. He, he's not the EU's father didn't call Merkelica and Macrona and said my kid would come up, so please put him there somewhere. He was, however, a negotiator of the European People's Party, one in 3, which shows some reputation and influence. I could say now that I'd go to Cern and I'd say something about physics there even though I'm an electrical engineering engineer, but I don't feel capable and I wouldn't do it. And some here give themselves the right to not even know where the office, where the European Parliament is, has never seen it, but they already show it to do it better and that it is not well done by what was done. If the Republic of Croatia had received these amounts of funds we have heard here from colleagues and by the head of the population, but also this, that one EUR we get 4 and a half euros, it deserved to be thanked and congratulated by whoever achieved it, that we have today the Vice-President of the European Commission Dubravko Shuic, that we have the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, many of them demeaning, and these are some of the successes of these governments, as well as Prime Minister Plenkovic. It's like you don't admit to Luka Blue that he's the best football player, you can't admit it, but he's also wanted and he's successful, so it's that. I'm ordering colleagues from the opposition it's good and positive to discuss, to prepare and notice at least so far is a short time, but a much better composition of the opposition now than in the last term, I see that people are preparing, it's positive and good, I see that there are people who have knowledge and that's quality. Let's continue in that sense, but let's admit something that's good for the Republic, it's good for each of us, it's for your children and for our children and it leads the Republic forward. It's the only thing that's going to lead this country forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2538	The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2539	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sanader, I agree with you that this practice introduced by President Plenkovic is very good to discuss here everything that is being negotiated at council meetings. The citizens are interested in this precisely for practical reasons. They see at their local levels that everything that is done where local levels are well prepared for European competitions, these projects go and succeed. Complete infrastructure and transport and other municipal infrastructure, social content and kindergartens are being built, etc. For all of these citizens are interested and it is also important that what is agreed on, this financial framework for the future period because it will be financed by many projects very important for the better life of our citizens, and I stress once again that these are major projects such as the project of a flood defence system in Karlovac County where citizens have suffered huge damages and consequences from floods for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2540	Mr. Sanader's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2541	I firmly stand on the point that it is important to discuss these topics here because we also saw here in the assembly that we still have Eurosceptics, that we still have people who think that we should not be members of the EU, that we should not be participated, that we should not cooperate and be an important member of the EU, which is why it is important that we also have this topic, which is why what has been heard about and against is also important for our citizens and that we are developing this consciousness and that people see and that they feel what is good, which are criticism, which are positive things, but there is certainly no alternative to our EU membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2542	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to refer my colleague Sanader to this, that part of your exposure where you yourself said it was really important to admit what's good. When we talk and think about the use of European funds so far, let us not forget, and we are all witnessing that Croatia wanted someone to admit it or not a big site, we do not have time and I will not list all the projects now. Croatia is a big construction site and it is seen, if it is someone's fault and if someone can't chew it, it's his problem. And when we recognise what is good let's not forget and once again I need to stress, after only 6.5 years of EU membership, Croatia has been given the honour of chairing the EU Council. And it should be acknowledged and it is the merit of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Croatian government and all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2544	Mr. Sanader's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2545	Thank you. So it's clear, take only the Peljek Bridge, take that investment, there were several governments, there was a government, and when we joined the EU and they didn't make it happen. So all these major infrastructure facilities, if it hadn't been for the EU, would have been very difficult to build, or would have had to be in debt and had to take funds on the free money market. So all these projects just need to raise awareness of people because it's not good that there's still a percentage in Croatia, I don't know how much that's a percentage, but there are still Eurosceptics, there are still people who question our EU membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2546	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2547	Thank you very much. I agree with your findings that this was a good topic to speak nicely and that she did not deserve these, these few important let's say the words that dominated her. First you don't know anything, we know better than you, the second thing we got was to get less to look better and the third is that simply all of what we did to the chairman wasn't worth anything because simply nobody felt part of that presidency in a specific time that I already thought about 20 or 27.2. 25.2. in the case of Covid's first case in the Republic of Croatia, it became different from all the times before. And of course those who have absolutely no part of anything simply have such a feeling, never make decisions, never make decisions, never settle for anything, settle for being an opposition, and you can conduct such a debate in which you can interpret what is wrong all day, and never offer any solution. We're here to offer a solution, that's what the citizens recognized three times in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2548	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2549	Well, I'll do it again, and you and I were together in the last assembly session, and I think here's a short time, but this council meeting is much better. Let's not forget that we've had situations that had to be brought out of this assembly by parliamentary deputies, that they've caused assembly interruptions, this is still a good atmosphere, and people are going to learn, and I think that the lesson to those who want is both the last choice of parliamentary and the results that have been in these elections, and it's seen who's getting the trust that people are looking very well, this is filmed, and they see who's talking, who's representing what's more difficult and who's fighting for good. And that's the election prize. So everyone chooses their own path, each chooses their own way of communicating with the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2550	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2551	Thank you. I was thinking that at some point this raise up for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it seems to me that not everyone on this side of the HDZ Assembly has raised up and congratulated me, so it seems to me like it was a mistake in the Rules of Procedure, you haven't all gotten up and thanked and congratulated me, but Mr Sanader said you can't go to CERN, so CERN isn't getting into the party card, so surely you can't get into CERN and here to say that we are who we are, I don't know I saw the European Parliament, but some of us who haven't even seen where the European Parliament building is that I can't participate in this debate very, very much with high and humiliating. We are here to constructively criticise, we are now talking about billions of EUR what it means, Croatia is the lowest in Europe for the use of these funds, the minister herself said here 38% So we talked about it and made suggestions and solutions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2552	Thank you very much. Mr. Sanader's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2553	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know where you recognized yourself, I really don't know why you recognized yourself and where you recognized yourself, I didn't think of you at all, and if you recognized yourself I couldn't help you there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2554	And now Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic will speak finally on behalf of the IP, Smart and Voice Club, and Glass. I can't see very well from here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2555	Thank you, Vice President. Representatives and MPs, here for my final presentation, I will begin to quote my colleague, Antu Bačić, and I will quote him in his words "we must believe that the presidency was ambitious and successful". No, we don't have to agree, the presidency was neither ambitious nor successful, for starters it wasn't articulated. We do not know what our objectives were and what our priorities were because, in general, in the area of foreign policy, the Republic of Europe does not know what the Republic of Europe wants to achieve. I have already pointed out in, during the morning, my basic two objections to how we implement foreign policy or how we shape it, and I have pointed out that we are not doing so in line with the roles that the President of the State and the Government have designed and imagined the constitution, and I have quoted the article here. The 99th Constitution, as well as the Art. I also object to the fact that in the field of foreign policy, we are acting in the same way that relations between authorities have been defined in practice, I believe that we need to change this, and I have made a very constructive proposal here, which is that the Law on the Cooperation of the HS and the Government is being drafted in a way that we should include both the President of the State or that we should come up with a whole new law for the relationship in the co-creation and implementation of the foreign policy in which both the President of the State and the Government participates. That's what I've been up for since the presidential election. And another very concrete objection to this report concerns its very content. So it's incorrect that this report is pretentious, which also lists the number of concerts. I was going to say that this report is overly bureaucratic, so it also lists completely irrelevant data to hide that it lacks what is really important. These bureaucratised data cannot in any way be associated with the programme and the objectives that should have been predetermined so that we could draw the line at the end of the presidency and see how they were achieved and in this way we could assess the work of the authorities themselves. That means control. We talked a lot today about the 22 billion-euro envelope, so I agree with those MPs who have already asked the question of principled nature. So, if our greatest success is that we have withdrawn the most funds per capita, then I think it is contradictory that the EU presidency should have been an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the efficient functioning and further development of Europe. And I also want to say that just by pointing out this circumstance in the first place, we've shown ourselves as those who, when we say it, are the best wire or are really the poorest, so we need the most resources to be given. However, while this joke is actually quite bitter, I object that the Croatian government treats citizens very badly with this report because it is also citizens who have the right to know what the Republic of Croatia thinks about individual policies discussed at EU level. And it is not acceptable to speak in general, in principle, in empty words and flossules. And my second objection is to the institutions because really empty content cannot be debated. When I asked a very specific question that any of these four programming areas that we defined were the subject of our presidency, subdued by any concrete measure, then I got an answer from one of the HDZ's representatives that we imposed the subject of demographicism and there was the story of the end, no further explanation or clarification, no new detail was found out. So I cannot believe that the success of the Republic of Croatia is that, for example, Dubravka Shuica was appointed Vice-President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Democracy and Demography. It may be a success for HDZ, but not for the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a serious problem with demographics, with a large outflow of our population, and research conducted by Tado Juric shows that corruption is the main cause. Corruption is the most credited precisely by your political party and not only by your defeat but also by our entire defeat. as states and societies. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2556	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Mr. Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2557	Thank you very much. After this debate is over, I have seen and my colleague Sanader calls for constructiveity regardless of whether ruling or opposition parliamentary representatives. However, criticism of the ruling policy or certain inexperiences towards certain policies is seen by the prime minister as some insult and then whines and whines the prime minister for no reason at all. All legitimate questions were raised here. The question why not apply, why don't we declare the IGP is one legitimate question in HS from the MPs the people sent here. And not only did we ask that, MOST Independent Lists put that proposal in a assembly that you didn't support, but that's your right. So, quite a constructive proposal to, therefore, protect our national interests, which is our sea, our fishermen, our flora and fauna in the end, it's the right of our sovereignty. Why is the EUR-o being introduced, the question being asked? That's a legitimate question. It's Mr. Troscott's two days already explaining the reasons why it would actually come to someone's mind, which is everything except being a national bank, is more a private bank, why not open a public debate and be a referendum? That's one constructive proposal, but that's what the prime minister jumps to. When the issue of selling agricultural land to foreign legal and natural persons such as Hungarians has been raised that it cannot be sold to legal and natural persons, foreigners sell agricultural land unless they come to live in Hungary, it is a legitimate question, quite legitimately, and I have made a legitimate legal proposal in a previous meeting that you did not accept. It's legitimate to talk about self-sufficiency, but when we talked about self-sufficiency, when I was talking, then the Prime Minister says you're a chap, you're a log, you're all, the only ones who have access to Brussels and those offices. So, when we talk about solving the missing from the Homeland War and opening it up. Serbia chapter 23, this is a legitimate question why Serbia should not be blocked until we know what Croatia has been through until Seks's arrest, location, transfer policy has been implemented to ensure that today we have contracts pre-accession which we have and in self-sufficiency, import lobbies, we see that our farmers are plowing agricultural land and I believe that the Most Club and the rest of the opposition have been quite constructive, of course we do not want to agree and so talk about parliamentary representatives that they do not know where in the gates of Brussels and that it is not, at least, important, the legitimacy given by this people. For example, I've been given more preferential votes than my colleague Sanader, for example, but that's legitimately your question, you're the vice president, and I respect that, but it's legitimate and I disagree with you. But every time the prime minister tells him about this right away, when he's asked these questions, he's immediately nervous, it's not a legitimate question, that we suggest that you accept or refuse, all in order to protect the national interests and better lives of our citizens. The fact is that since today in the EU, I will repeat 100 times, 6% of GDP from our evicted people outside who send money to their families or I don't know how and I don't know how we have to talk about this problem, 2/3 of Croatia is literally empty, the village is literally predicated, and we've never given support to agriculture again, and we've never less, we've never produced less, and we've never imported again. So we have countless illogicalities. We must not allow our fields not to be modeled, only in Dalmatia we have 20,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land. Of course we also need to talk about the environment, waste management, the illogicality of the waste management center, that's all, water protection, water protection, water entry into the Constitution, these are colleagues and colleagues, regardless of their opposition, are legitimate issues. And we don't have to get along and it can be both harsh rhetoric and disagreement, but this isn't even ideological issues, I mean it's visual, these are questions from the far left to the far right of the center for the improvement and survival of the people in this area. They call for new sovereignty, and basically have such a narrow view and hold high, mock Assembly deputies are not positive for Croatian democratic processes. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2558	Thank you. Mr. Erik Fabianic will speak finally on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives if he manages to break through to here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2559	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. Here it is, the end, we bring to an end the debate that was about the funds that Croatia received from the EU were the part that was related to the report for the Croatian EU presidency. So far, I have been in debates and replicas, and also in the Committee on European Affairs, and my evaluation of my discussions has been relatively constructive, specifically Mr. Marić on the committee, and I have asked how the issue of this crown of crisis and everything that happens regardless of the resources we have received to reflect our entry into the euro area, I have received an extremely good answer and I voted specifically for a certain conclusion. However, after the debate I have been listening to today, I am a little moved to exercise my opinion. Unfortunately, I've heard a lot of lies, lies, innuendo, and to excuse and sell fog, which makes me sad, I expected, this is my first term in the assembly, but I expected a little more quality debate. Namely, there is something Croatia has to raise in its results in the EU as well as in this government, as well as in that former government, but it is certainly not the EU presidency because it is a question of my people's rotation. The rotation was not fought either by Mr Plenkovic, nor by Mr Milanovic, it simply is. And the other thing, Mr. Sanader, is the law that is related to the co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly, has not been passed by Mr. Plenkovic in 2013, and that means during the SDP government, but it is completely irrelevant, there is an obligation of the Parliament and there is a commitment of the Prime Minister and in this way we must function independently on who passed this law if the law is good, but let's not give up on those feathers that don't belong to us. I look to the future, I don't care about the past at all. Here, I thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2560	Also final on behalf of the HDZ, Mr Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can once again commend today's debate and reports that we have received and the report submitted to us by this minister who is still foreign affairs and prime minister and I think these reports are of quality, that this is well presented and presented, that these past four years have been the permanent president of the government's report on all the meetings we have and that this is useful. What the law was passed in 2013 did not know what prevented the former prime minister and the SDP from putting up with the same thing, because they believed that this house was not responsible and that it was not the level of the one that would be discussed. We are, HDZ has also assessed that Prime Minister Plenkovic is good and that we need to talk to citizens and this way that through reports in the assembly, through discussions with parliamentary deputies, such reports must and should be submitted because it can only benefit Croatian citizens and us to see what, how the EU is doing, which is being discussed in the EU because unfortunately many do not know it. You can meet Mr. Bulj offended, I didn't say first that you don't know or that someone doesn't know where the door is from the Brussels Parliament, but I just said look at Luka Modric's Luka Modric. The player from the Dalmatian league can't play in the European first team, he needs a little, you know, he needs to get to the first team, he needs to be talented, he needs to be good quality to recognize him in the European lick, to play for a strong European club. And Luka Modric started out of a small place, he started out of a small club, but he did a show and he came to the European league and now he's the best and best player there. What you can't admit to success, that's your problem, that I really can't help you, that you have to solve it yourself because you say here that the Prime Minister, as you said, whines, yawns, jumps, it's absolutely, absolutely false, that, but it shows you, it shows your character, it shows who you are when you're in such a way telling those lies, and there's no way we can help you again. I think this is good, too. Oreshkovic who calls here, when you have nothing to say to HDZ then tell corruption, but it doesn't work anymore, you saw it in the last elections. In the last election, the people said what they thought about it, you didn't do it, some other parties did it and some other party did it because the whole pre-election campaign was just corruption, corruption and corruption, and nothing was offered. If it's your model of functioning, then you won't get far either, that's the only program and that's the only way to spit on HDZ and HDZ, HDZ representatives. We will continue to work on the welfare of the people. Admitted you, not recognised, Prime Minister, this Plenkovic is the first league, he plays in the First European League, people recognize him, has qualities, has successes, needs him, I personally congratulate him on these successes and the results of these meetings, on election funds for the Republic of Croatia. If he hadn't had the funds they'd have said he was incompetent, he didn't have the funds. Now that he's got the money, when he's got the money, now you're saying what we need the money for, it means we're poor. So I know that you will never admit to success, but I say, it is yours, it was before you some who also performed, today they are gone, and Mr Bulj people said what they think of Plenkovic, the people said what they think of HDZ, you act here as if they weren't elections a month ago, or less than a month ago, 25 days ago. 25 days ago, the people in the elections told you what they think of you, what they think of Plenkovic, what they think of HDZ, and you go on like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2562	Thank you very much. Now I wonder where he was wrong, where he hurt Mr. Sanader's Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2563	Yes, I've called myself on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm giving up on Mr. Andre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2565	I'm sorry, but I have to agree, there's really been an injury. 238, but not 5. I already don't know which way the opposition is belittled just because it's giving out reasoned criticism. Well, I don't know what, the point of this presentation was to say only Sanader is eternal, or just HDZ is eternal, we're all here, which is irrelevant, so the people chose us for the exact purpose that opposition has in democratic processes. Start to appreciate that, get used to that opposition that's constructive and strong exists. You'll be very welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2566	And you tell me now what would you do in my place? Let me say, let me say, that Blue is eternal, please, please, don't say a word, don't say a word, please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2567	I expect you to keep your word, you said you wouldn't be giving any warning today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2568	Mr. Gordan Grlic-Radman will speak now on behalf of the promoter in the end, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, it's been an honor... I have shared it equally since the first moment I came to the largest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any democratic order of the state, it's one true beauty and grace we couldn't dream of before 31st. that today we have diversity here politically and that we can democratically, as you said, debate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] After this truly constructive debate today, as many of you have said, I have listened, I mean almost everything, I could really say that I am firm in my belief that the presidency was not good but was excellent, but not thanks to the support of HDZ but thanks to the constructive debate and my conviction, my conviction that follows me historically from the creation of the Croatian state in which I believed in the Homeland War, which I also believed in, the visionary policy of Franjo Tudjman, the first Croatian president who took for the external political goals a democratic step, Western Europe, the Western world, membership in NATO, membership in the EU, which today continues successfully. I know what we had and I know what we have now, and it's very important, it's my belief, my position, my position and I'm proud of the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs today, and I'm sure I'm going to refer to this report that I see has its own critical dimension, and I'd like it to be more critical than critical. So the report that you actually have here in front of you is just one simplified document for reason, and the chronicle of our work and work is actually thousands of pages, it's 160 groups, working groups, people, employees who have worked hard at our presidency. Our EU Council Presidency is not rotating if it is known that we have achieved precisely those of our five social objectives, social security, perspective, economic sovereignty, strengthened statehood and what is most important global visibility in the international community, not only in the EU but also in other parts of the world. We in our commendation did not just get the courtoaic praises they exceed actually the ordinary courtoasia. We were also praised by the leaders of other countries because at some point, we were at that moment when we chaired the EU Council, we actually presided over the EU worldwide. Here, I've recorded here when Mrs. Dear Representative Oreshkovic speaks I'd really like to see who these are, which are concrete criticisms. The foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia is structured, we know exactly who and how we communicate. We have successfully led this very council at a moment of extremely great unprecedented crisis. I am sorry that there are no colleagues who have only remembered the first sentence that it is a European country, EU member states have indeed been entertained by the concern about the health of their citizens, but that Croatia is praised precisely for the fact that this current disintegration, the integration so as to manage behaviour and create those communication corridors so that the EU does not fall apart. We also managed to take care of a failed world trade organization, where America had already referred or actually refused to appoint judges to the Board of Appeal. The Middle East, cooperation means our contribution to modernization in the Middle East crisis with Turkey and Syria, it's all actually those foreign policy situations where we have shown and made a great contribution. A small country but with responsibility and respect. All he needs to remember is what happened 31 years ago. One small country that had the strength, capacity and potential to manage a single EU that was actually dominated by large countries but at some point those countries were less organised and that was where Croatia recognized, recognised as a successful co-ordinater of 27 countries because it should not be disturbed by the fact that the country that holds the presidency is a neutral mediator so that it is also its chapters related to our eastern neighbourhood, which is what Mr Bulj said, so in our interest is a secure and stable neighbourhood. No one can pass just like that in this European club, we know what Croatian interests are, this was a promotion of the Croatian homeland. All six Western Balkan countries, now compare where we are after 30 years and where these countries are. Therefore, with Serbia, we have certainly open issues which we will deal with bilaterally. Be assured, we defend Croatian interests, but we also want to give them a hand, but please, gentlemen, as we have also worked actively to meet the criteria and standards that other countries need as well. On the other hand, we have open issues with and with Serbia when they are missing in 1872, when it comes to the protection of, therefore, the reciprocal Croatian rights of the minority in Vojvodina and Serbia, respectively, must be resolved once. There is an interstate commitment that Serbia needs to meet as well as many other issues. When it comes to BiH, be assured that this is not the first time we are sincere advocates of the European path of BiH, but also the equality and consistency of the Croatian people in BiH. It's absolutely our priority and it doesn't stay in words. That's exactly what I'm telling you because I know how much time we've spent and how actively we've worked with the Croatian prime minister who, who has shown himself not only his own engagement but his leadership. And in this situation when Croatia has confirmed for the second time an international legal entity, managing, becoming a country that holds the presidency of the EU Council, this is a very important point. We know, someone mentioned some other countries, but we know what the shortcomings were, we all wanted well, but we prepared for the presidency. It is a shame that the citizens did not see it, but the citizens recognized HDZ policy, the Croatian government said, on July 5th. Therefore, we move on, we move on towards defence of Croatian interests, respect for European rights, European values are our values, and that is what we want for our neighbours. The fact that we managed to make sure that Montenegro opened chapter 8 because they were able to meet all the conditions of talking about that there was an open chapter in Montenegro, and it wasn't Serbia that anyone wanted to, no colleagues, I would really like to say it to him, he used the Alkaric dictionary to hit the srid, but I think that a fellow Grumoja hit nothing, when he was just imputing that we allegedly executed the deblock, that's not true. I'm sorry that Mr. Troscott isn't here or, that's undetected, it's undetected, you said so, I like to listen when you're talking, but here you're not, you're wrong, I have to tell you because I can tell you it's noticed. Of course you don't have to believe me, but I'm firmly convinced that our presidency has been quite noticed. But you have the right to this attitude, the view, your opinion, but often the opinion is not a compensation for argument, so this and that is actually the one that, which is actually your perception, is possible that you are starting with that concert. I could tell you that we started much earlier with the presidency, the truth there is talking about that one magazine part that was really wonderful because we had leaders of European institutions there. You started with that part that actually shaded that one beautiful, one-night stand, but it's a protocol thing, not our presidency. On November 29th, we already had a meeting here in Westin with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the countries concerned, and on December 5th, we had the President of the European Parliament and the Presidents of the Frats, and at some point I had to chair Brussels because there was a crisis in Finland in their government, so we had to take over the presidency already in December of the month, and in early January there was a whole college in Zagreb in our National University Library. So, as someone called it a bureaucratic dictionary, you wouldn't quite agree with it, you know, it's a bureaucratic dictionary. It's a dictionary one that facilitates communication, of course we didn't try to show it in an essayistic way, we didn't treat it with baroque hyperboles, so it's a dictionary that's understood as one report that can be presented all of our activities, but I'm telling you again that there are thousands and thousands of pages that can and there are former ministers here, we've had a configuration in the 10 councils where our ministers chaired. When we are talking about why it might have taken place in Vukovar, yes, we were also thinking in Vukovar that the situation was the way it was, but we had an informal meeting in Zapresic in Lužnica where we showed Christian culture, a tradition in the Baroque Castle of Lužnica where the housewives were sisters of charity, and the second day we had for the first time in the history of the EU an extraordinary foreign affairs council so outside Brussels for the first time this one, but then there was a corona of the virus and then it was really all stopped, but then it had to have really mastery and manage, to change the video conferences actually become legitimate, so to derrog the Rules of Procedure or to change the video conferences also had this legitimacy of conclusions. A stable neighborhood, a report, so look at the report as a technical character so that you can understand it better, and of course if you have questions, we will provide you with everything that you need. It's not just that you know what on the surface we went somewhere so the prime minister, etc., but it's a permanent representation that worked day and night, it's a big job when you get this task of precedent. Not that it wasn't as someone said undetectedly, but there wasn't a single pea, where our ordinary workers who worked as really worms were diligent, who tried to show knowledge, awareness, skill and professionalism. And I'm very proud of that. And that's why I congratulate this one too, that's what I told my colleagues and colleagues to ministers, it's not just the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, we were the truth coordinators, the bearers of all activities, so we should actually thank the entire government, and otherwise I'm actually congratulating all of you because we all chaired. It would be nice to correct if we adopted this report today because we promoted the Republic of Croatia, all Croatian citizens, all Croatian people, we promoted Croatia. If others admire us and congratulate us, then why should we doubt it? When, I agree with the Cetinski end and the missing we said, Mr. Bulj, here Mrs. Dark Taritash is unfortunately not there, and I would also like to see this little here really when we talk about pink glasses we should really look at it real real, how the criticism is welcome and always needs sometimes and better, but could it have been better in one such situation that was unprecedented, certainly it couldn't have been better, and we've done a lot more. And Mrs. Oreshkovic, we met all our goals, the Zagreb Summit would not be held without the initiative of Andrej Plenkovic. Northern Macedonia, which has been waiting for 15 years for the opening of negotiations and Albania, it is our credit, and all of those you know that we have had the motto means "Strong Europe in a world of challenges", we have realised all this and "Europe that connects" because we have established corridors in those countries, the countries have had a different epidemiological picture, they have been closed, in fact one EU disintegration has threatened and we have acted there and we have established the means and Europe that connects, Europe that protects, above all we have cared for the EU not only the Croatian borders but the EU's borders from illegal immigration. This is an important aspect, and this Europe is influential, so that's what I'm telling you is that we're expanding to Southeast Europe, and on the other hand also the proposal, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's initiative, the Eastern Partnership, so to show that we're not just thinking about the Southeastern neighbourhood, but we care about those countries that are also in Eastern Europe. Here, it's time here passing, Mr. Hajdukovic asked for a test, I've made a statement out here briefly. I would just like to tell you that as early as February 27th, we established a crisis committee, immediately established a way of working to protect employees, made it possible to work from home to provide workers who had been destroyed after the earthquake. We have also secured the protection of our employees in our DKPs, we have spotlessly secured protection masks, disinfectants, introduced behaviour protocols for both employees and parties.../incomprehensible/... application offices. Workers who were sent to help conduct the elections in BiH did administrative and technical work and did not directly participate in the monitoring of the vote or the admissions of Croatian citizens who were coming to vote. I've been testing myself as a minister, and it's a pleasure to report to me, here Mr. Hajdukovic is not there how negative the test is, and I did it yesterday before I went to Slovenia, and before that I called a Slovenian colleague to show him that this, here I'm waiting for this report and he was later negative, and I told my colleagues, Anje Logar, that the test was negative. In the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, 100 valuable employees work and we cannot really resist the finger as the virus has entered many other institutions or companies, so unfortunately it has entered the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would finally really like to appeal that this report, you can be critical of it but it wouldn't be good to ignore it, it would be unfair to know people who worked very hard on it, who put great effort into this presidency, who may be seen on the side as someone really says rotational but remember, 31 years ago, which was and remember where we are today. And so here I am, glad to be here today, to present this report, here the same Prime Minister presented the European Council's report, thanks to the Prime Minister who has shown a truly excellent role in communication, in persuasion, we have provided 22 billion euros. Then ask Croatian citizens if they want to give up that money. So taking care of economic recovery, taking care of social security, taking care of jobs, wages. That's what's actually been waiting for us these four years, so we only work in the interest of Croatian citizens, that's our goal and we want to have both support and understanding of yours. Of course it's always an opposition in parliament, in the Parliament, which is in some way a critical interrogator or a measure of some behavior, but so be it, you know. So take a good look at this report once again, it has great and painful work and our ordinary employees who may be anonymous to you, but only we know how much we worked, how we worked to get our face, your cheek because this is a Croatian face, to be clean, and I can proudly say that we met honorably because our goal was honorable. If our goal is honorable, then our means of knowledge, our professions, our experiences have been honorable and we have really strengthened our statehood, we have come out strong, we have confidence, and we can share our experiences with others. Thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2570	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but we have three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2571	Yes, I called on the Rules of Procedure because the minister, after so many praises, in an Alcaric dictionary, missed out on an alka. And of all the praises, ministers, absolutely Croatian people have nothing. I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2572	And I congratulate you on your speech. Mr. Grmoya [[Intruder Bull: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2573	Thank you, Your Honor. Injury. 238, I listened to the club carefully to the minister, he said I hit nothing with today's debate, no, no, I said I hit the srid and he said it was nothing. I made concrete arguments, respected ministers, a committee to monitor Serbia is not meeting, countries that blocked Serbia, blocked it because of the rule of law, that Croatia did not do and there is reason, you did not give any answers And here I am staying with everything I've said. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-07-29-0.u2574	Time, time, time. I conclude the debate, we continue the session tomorrow, July 30, 2020 at 9:30 with the point Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in response to the crisis and support for recovery in the second reading. After we discuss the points planned for tomorrow, I would like to inform you that we will finally discuss another point, which is... After the vote, right? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, then there are two points, why is it written like that, I don't understand? The Mandate-Immunity Commission report? So we have two points. Well, we don't have two, this is the first... Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll do it again. The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in response to the crisis and support for recovery and the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and after that, we will probably continue to continue if I understand correctly. ... Oh, no, that's a bad one. [[-Bukarica raider, you don't understand.]] At 9:30. [[Bukarica: Certainly after we discuss all the points planned for tomorrow, we will discuss another point of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report.]] [[/Intruder on the side: When does it start?]] The session was interrupted at 7:23 p.m. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will be the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
