ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194974	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194975	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. So, please, let's stick to the strict rules so we don't violate what we agreed on. I'm asking from the guards to keep an eye on that, that's the first thing. Second of all, here you go, but I don't know what that has to do with this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194976	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194977	My colleague Vucelic, I repeat, this has nothing to do with the agenda point, you abuse the Rules of Procedure, go back to the agenda point, or I will take away your word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194978	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194979	Comrade Vucelic, I take your word, please sit down and you won't get a break. I ask you colleagues and colleagues to stick to the Rules of Procedure, don't abuse this situation, we stick to the order. - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 881. The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is respected Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194980	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, this proposal complements the Law on Electronic Communications of Article 104a. in order to allow for exceptional data processing by a location without the data in question in order to protect national or public security, in particular in cases where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has declared a natural disaster or disaster, or where the Minister of Health has declared an outbreak of infectious disease or the risk of an outbreak of infectious disease in accordance with specific regulations, and where the health and lives of citizens without processing such data cannot be effectively protected. An additional exception to the general prohibition on the processing of traffic-free location data is provided for is limited to the narrow, clear and precisely defined situations that are to come exclusively in accordance with specific regulations. And only when the health and lives of citizens could not be effectively protected in some other way. Thus, the required additional exception in the draft law meets the requirement that restrictions on individual personal rights must be prescribed by the legal standard and that they can only be prescribed exceptionally if they are necessary to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and to protect public health. The proposal for a law also meets the criterion of proportionality as it is estimated that the processing of data marked only by the geographical position of the terminal equipment of the user publicly available electronic communications services without traffic data is therefore without any information on the content of the communication transmitted by the electronic communications network or the quantity of data transferred or for the purpose of calculating and charging costs, etc. a proportionate need to protect the health and life of citizens. This particularly applies to situations such as this caused by the Covid-19 disease epidemic when the threat reached such a level that the health minister has declared an outbreak of infectious disease. This measure would allow, for example, the monitoring of a possible violation of the self-insulation obligation due to suspicion of infection or due to a proven infection, since mobile networks are able to locate a mobile device with a relatively high accuracy especially in cities where there is a higher density of the base stations of the mobile network. In this way, it is possible to monitor where the user is moving or which places he visits but will not or will not be able to track which data he uses on the Internet or who he talks to or exchanges text messages with. It should be pointed out that the processing of these data is already being carried out automatically for the purpose of locating users in the event of calls for a single European emergency number 112 and other emergency numbers in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this bill also complies with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation under which the processing of personal data should also be considered legal if necessary in order to protect the interest necessary to preserve the life of the subjects or other natural persons. Some types of processing can serve important needs of public interest and vital interest, the interests of respondents such as where processing is necessary for humanitarian purposes, including for the monitoring of epidemics and their spread or in humanitarian crises, in particular in cases of natural disasters and disasters caused by human activity. The adoption of this law is part of the measures aimed at enabling the rapid and adequate handling of all competent authorities in the emerging special circumstances of the declared Covid-19 disease epidemic and in order to protect human life and health. Since these special circumstances require swift treatment, it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194981	Thank you. We have 13 replicas. Now, are we going to go to the replicas being recorded, then you have to come here? Good or out of place. I think we're better off, let's get out of the replica area, we'll be in touch, so we'll ask the departments to set up a stronger maybe microphone on the side that would then register that so that our record-keeping services can. What, what? No, no, but we have this microphone so let it carry from man to man. How about that? Yeah, yeah, that's what I thought. No, no, no, but be at a distance, be at a distance from the meter, at a distance from the meter, so don't be too close. Can the service be technical, is that okay? And you have the same people if you come here. ... Come on, then, you'd better come over here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, with that in order to beg, just a little more intervention now I see it, so one chair here for a representative of the government, don't all yell in the same voice, so there's going to be giving a replica so you can hear... I'm sorry, but take three more steps. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We don't have two microphones, you're all going to talk there, and the chair here for the Prime Minister is that you don't have to come every time, you have to sit there. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194982	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club has serious objections to the proposed measure. We believe that the measure as it is addressed and as the Government has proposed it so much in the constitution guaranteed rights of man and citizen that if we bring it in this way, and if we bring it in this way it must be brought in accordance with Article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which provides for the extraordinary powers of the Assembly in the case of such conditions, in fact those states which you yourself have stated in the bill of law. At the same time, this measure if we don't change it, we have to bring in a two-thirds majority. Dear colleagues and colleagues, monitoring where citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are moving is limiting their rights. These rights may be limited and should be limited because the need is so, but then we must do so in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which the situation has predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194983	Thank you. You want an answer? No, I don't. Then let's go to the other one, colleague Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194984	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry. This measure, which you propose, is exclusively referred to as a repressive measure or measure that should result in some kind of citizen surveillance direction. She's so irrational she just can't be acceptable. She's irrational only from a clean situation, if anyone wants to break anything he'll leave his cell phone at home. Well, we're not expecting someone who will knowingly violate something that is prescribed to carry a cell phone with them, and he knows that this law is in force. So it's so irrational that it's simply this argument that's much stronger in terms of entering individual freedom doesn't even have to be considered because this is an irrational measure. Please appreciate that. There are other technical solutions that can and should solve such problems. These are electronic bracelets, etc. That's the way it's supposed to go. And this is what I think is so illogical that I can't just figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194985	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194986	Okay, this is what we can do for the first step anyway. Normally that there are other measures, we had an example of South Korea that has been talked about in the media these days, therefore it is not exclusively that these measures are being taken and extended, but this as a first measure can certainly be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194987	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194988	Thank you very much. Your Honor. He's not the first only measure, it's supposed to be the last measure, not the first. So this is the restriction of human freedom, this doesn't make any sense and I fully support what my colleague Grbin said and what Mr. Orepic said, this doesn't make sense, this is the introduction to dictatorship. Don't do it that way. There are many other better, more efficient technical opportunities for people to be followed, this is how you will follow everything. So this is the introduction to dictatorship, you copied it from someone and this is like reading 1984 from Orwell, so that's it. Don't do this, please, if you're doing this for a two-thirds majority, I'm sure you won't win it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194989	Thank you. You want an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194990	It is not intended to follow everything but only those who are prescribed self-insulation or quarantine measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194991	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194992	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, just a brief introduction today we have the power to limit one's rights to the expense of others, the right to speak, the fundamental right. It can't be today and it's not allowed so you can say anything about whoever, we know, there are institutes that defend it. I'm interested in two things here, if we're already limiting someone's rights in any way. I'd like to know how to deal with these data exactly the protocols that will be able to process them and I think it should be considered as classified data, so not something that's allowed to see whoever's in that Civilian headquarters and now you have 50 people so now 50 people will watch it or if they have to sign it and know exactly what it's doing is absolutely crucial. And what's also good is that these people certainly know they're under measures, so that's certainly the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194993	Would you like some? No, I don't. Then let's go to a colleague of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194994	Dear Secretary of State. So we're aware of the situation we're in. Last Wednesday, we voted absolutely unanimously in the Parliament that the Civil headquarters has certain possibilities, aware of the situation which is, but investing in the freedom of individuals is an extremely dangerous situation. We at the Voice Club are aware that a series of measures must be taken, but this is not a good suggestion, this is not a good message. You know, these are times where we need to be reasonable in which we have to make good decisions because times are hard, they're not simple, they won't be simpler. We at the GLAS Club have, among other things, given an amendment that we're looking for what we think is a minimum, which is to limit it by the time it's, when it's being brought And that he who is supervised must know about it [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194995	You want an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194996	I'll explain in the end what the possibilities are technically related to monitoring. And the M.O.P. gentleman who's with me, the Secretary of State, can answer this tracking and registration technique later.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194997	You can always answer, know between clubs and make your comments and think about the prelater. Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194998	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I think we're always wrong when we're looking for only one alternative to tracking those who need to be monitored for self-insulation or restricting their movement. Some cities already have a system of necklaces in older or bracelets, excuse me, I apologize, a bracelet for older people who need other people's help and him who can press and call professional, professional services at any time. Maybe you should have thought about a system like that. This is where we all think we've grown cell phones by the body, but no, someone who wants to avoid that kind of control will leave it somewhere and go. So, what's the safety of the application? And thirdly, there should be increased parliamentary oversight over these systems. Let's not forget there's parliamentary surveillance, And there's not much to talk about. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u194999	Let's move on, dear colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195000	Dear Secretary of State, this law is late and it's clear to everyone. So, we're in phase, we're going to phase four of the epidemic and definitely this law is completely unnecessary. What is the problem of this law where, in the law itself, measures are not limited to a certain period but they can continue to continue and quite certainly given that they are entering human rights, in Article. 27. The constitution must be brought with a two-thirds majority. Here he would warn us all not to witness history because here we broke up all relations with a country that controlled its citizens and limited their movement in some parts. Let's not bring in the same law in this space that's going to get into citizens' privacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195001	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195002	Application will take as long as the threat is sustained. That decision the Minister of Health made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195003	Comrade Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195004	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195005	I won't, I won't, I won't say anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195006	Thank you very much. So, notice of this kind of law, the crisis situation absolutely in humans wakes up authoritarian tendencies and conditions of crisis and the crisis itself of victims can be human lives, the victim may be an economy, but the victim may also be freedom. And this way of tracking without people being followed knowing that they're being followed, of course with all these possibilities of cheating systems, but I think that's even a minor problem, the bigger problem is that we've had a rational approach so far. So, he didn't admire authoritarian measures, and people act really disciplined. I think it should be honored and that this law is just going out to the surface of an authoritarian measure that won't use health, and it's going to hurt very much. Freedom and democracy. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195007	Let's move on, Comrade Bilek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195008	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm only interested in one thing. In terms of the adoption of this law, whether it is possible to monitor persons who have been in contact with that person or who have been in the vicinity in terms of supervision later on if it is found that the person who should have been in self-insulation has been in contact with certain persons so that they can be put into self-insulation, that is one thing that I am interested in whether this is possible. The other thing, of course, regarding the restriction of human rights, I would only remind everyone that we are not in a regular situation and that one person who is infected with coronary virus in this case can infect a number of other people, but certainly that person must know and inform her that it is being monitored and must be limited exclusively to the duration of such monitoring, only in the time of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195009	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195010	Dear Secretary, we have witnessed both colleagues and colleagues that the coronaryvirus has caused i.e. certain freedoms for people who can pass on these diseases, of course those who are in self-insulation. However, to carry out this perfiduous way possible dictatorship and control absolutely everything is absolutely unacceptable. And I don't know who it came down to, secretary, to think that now I'm this cell phone, you see it here, I put it here, I'm gonna go now, I don't know, to the other side of town, will you be sure if I'm here or there? Therefore, we must not allow this crisis to be an exclusive and absolute government, here we must, both in the community and through the control of police mechanisms and everyone who has to follow these people, we must protect the health of our people, not through the crisis, try to introduce absolute dictatorship. I'll be against it if this is an absolutely insane suggestion. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195011	Let's go to the next line, Comrade Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195012	Thank you, my dear secretary, I mean, they told my colleagues everything so I'm stupid to repeat it at all. I made a statement before this to the press, and I said that MOST would be against this proposal because it's irrational, because it threatens human freedoms, and that's the fundamental element of our programme means protecting human freedom, freedom of speech, freedom of opinion at all. After all, the right to have any information that only ours remains ours. This proposal does not help the health care of our population, and these human freedoms are being violated. And here I can only be here because the question of when I'm going to come to the debate, I can express my position, we're against this, I was afraid we'd be lonely, but I see that most of the opposition is on this trail and it would be good, here I call and the Honored President to consult this HDZ Club and that this law withdraws them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195013	Okay. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195014	Before we even find out that we're going to follow someone, I'm asking you in which way you plan to determine that something belongs to someone, because you're going to conduct an intelligence investigation on someone who's using that phone, whose name is it, whether it's on a personal name, whether we have the mayor, the mayor, on behalf of the firm, whether you're going to interrogate and call there, ask who's the user of that number, how we're going to access when the minors, whether you're going to ask permission from their parents, we're opening a lot of questions long before we ask if that cell phone is on the chair is there, and I'm here, we are together or we're not, I don't think that we can uniquely identify the person, the property of a mobile device and what you're planning to do, and I think that there's a lot of elements where it just shows, and through these colleagues that we have been simply not going to be able to be able to be effective, and to degrade, and actually degrade, actually, and to degrade the headquarters that We should primarily worry about moving. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195015	And the last line, colleagues Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195016	So, after the introduction of a civil protection headquarters that has absolute power, we are now going with new measures to limit freedom. If he's trying to prevent people who are in self-insulation from leaving the house, it's up to the police to do it. So, police officers will be very simple to visit each of their own, of course, people who are in isolation and check whether they are there or not. At the moment when someone is found not to be in isolation, then punish him, he is punished by prison, fine, and strictly. And then, for example, it gets out to others in the media, and then there's no problem with what you're talking about. So, by means of simple sanctions, strict sanctions solves the problem in a short time. As far as cell phones are concerned, colleagues have said nicely, that story is actually not even feasible, and here the whole story is another sense, one supercontrol of the entire population, you said in the case of quarantine, and what if there is a quarantine for the whole of Croatia, are we all going to be controlled then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195017	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. You received a report from the working bodies by electronic means, I see a colleague of Bačić's. Here you go. A fellow coat of arms, I'm guessing the same break. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195018	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a five-minute recess to consult on this bill. What I'm trying to say first of all is that this law was prepared and the government referred it to the procedure last week. At that time, we were still considering the need to make the decision referred to in Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which prescribes that in the event of natural disasters, 2/3 of the Croatian Parliament's decision to suspend certain rights, constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not be taken into consideration by a test of proportionality but rather by a test of reasonableness. We believe that, given the spread of the epidemic of the coronary virus in Croatia, the time has come for the Croatian Parliament to decide 2/3 of the majority in order to allow state bodies to act in accordance with that decision and suspend certain rights which, by the Constitution or decision of the Croatian Parliament, will be prescribed as well as those constitutional rights which under no circumstances can be suspended. So I'm surprised that fellow MPs at the moment when we are being threatened by the pandemic of the Coronal Two over measures that would determine whether or not citizens who have been granted self-insulation are granted the same measure. This is one of the measures how and in what way and how it can be controlled, monitored and monitored, and monitored whether individual citizens of the Republic of Croatia are actually using this measure of self-insulation. I would tell the gentlemen of the MPs not to worry about the way they check through mobile phones whether it's really individual, the individual who's in self-insulation whether he's acting that way. That's why you can jump in a very simple way, there's no need to talk about it here right now. In any case, we will support this at the club of representatives and point out that the Government is preparing a decision to be taken in the Croatian Parliament that would prescribe the human rights prescribed by the Constitution, which would be the Croatian Parliament for the purpose of stopping the spread pandemics suspended. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195019	Thank you, the break will be approved. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195020	I thank you, Mr. and Club of Representatives of the SDP, for a pause to further consult with this law, but also with regard to the announcement that my colleague Bacic has now said because we have not had this information so far, and that is that the government is considering the activation of Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and for those who are following us to clarify it is a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which provides for a state of emergency, in which 2/3 of the majority can limit individual freedoms and rights of man and citizen. I would like to remind you, the SDP's Club of Representatives asked last Thursday to activate that provision and, of course, we will have no objections against it, we believe it is necessary, we believe that this should have been done earlier, but we also believe that the individual decisions made by the headquarters, decisions that should have been made exactly that way by the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. However, as far as this particular law is concerned, the respected counterpart Bačić and in exceptional situations must take care of the test of proportionality and in exceptional situations, and this is directly indicated by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we must make sure that the measures that we are making are proportionate. When a greater test of proportionality is threatened, it also allows for greater restrictions, but we cannot escape from any moment that we bring in whatever measure we must be careful not to be excessive and difficult for our citizens, as well as for this measure. The measure as predicted by the ministry or proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia is excessively difficult, excessively restrictive. The SDP advocates' club has submitted an amendment to the proposed law, we ask that it be limited to whom the measure applies, which is the duration of the measure and the measure that must be notified to the person to whom the measure applies, but we also foresee what will happen to the data after the measures have expired, as well as the introduction of parliamentary supervision. If you accept that, if you accept the two-thirds majority to pass this bill, we will support you because we think that this will be a good step in the direction you have announced, which is the fight against the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195021	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the bush. Here you go. The apartment will, of course, be approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195022	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club so that my colleague Bulj and I and my colleague, Sladolev, who is waiting outside, will consult on this bill, but also on what the colleagues in the SDP said. We are aware of the situation in which our country and the whole world are located, as an opposition and as an opposition political option, we have been very cooperative, we have also supported the Government of those proposals that we considered reasonable in the fight against this epidemic, but also in the fight for health in the fight for life we must choose and what life we want, what life for our citizens, how they will live and whether we will all human freedoms, all human rights risk in this fight. I don't think that's the right way, I think this proposal is irrational. After all, the other MPs said that in their reports here, nothing with this measure will be achieved in particular. There are different options for monitoring those people who have a measure of self-insulation, not tracking cell phones, tracking the movement of all citizens, and what is most dangerous is that these data are collected and used perhaps, and we have witnessed how social networks and social media data can be used both in election campaigns and in other circumstances. So freedom is above all else and we cannot allow human rights and freedoms to be violated under some mask of struggle against this crown virus. We are also aware that they are headed by this headquarters of the former regime, I mean Minister Bozinovic, that they have this totalitarian reflex, and we are not allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195023	Okay. Now we're going to explain the break, dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195024	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS club. So the situation is not simple, the situation is extraordinary, this way really needs to be highlighted once again by every deep affection for those experts who lead, who talk about it, and we need to listen to the experts. As long as politics in this situation listened to the experts we went in the right direction. Why are we here today? We are located because the role of the Croatian Parliament is to protect democracy. You're breaking it with this law. And therefore I will take the opportunity to read us all the provision once again. 17. A constitution that we should all take care of together because citizens chose us to protect democracy, to protect human rights among other things, and we must never forget that. A.k.a. 17. The Constitution reads "At a time of war or a direct threat to the independence and unity of the state and major natural disasters, certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution may be limited. This is being decided by the Croatian Parliament to the two-thirds majority of all MPs, if the Croatian Parliament cannot meet on a proposal from the Government and with the co-signation of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic." We're meeting, we can meet, we can make decisions, we agreed on how to make them. So far, all decisions have been made by politics in a way that we've listened to experts. Now is the time to listen to one another, and if we all warn about the same thing, why can't we come up with one proposal that will be common, but that we must always take care of the individual's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195025	A break will be granted. Dear colleague Vlaho Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195026	The Honorable Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSU, SNAGA, Independent and New Policy Club to reconsider these proposed measures. In fact, what we're proposing is inappropriate to the circumstances we're facing. What is proposed is unnecessary and what is proposed is irrational, so it has no effect or can have effect, and it has huge consequences. And I even dare say that this measure makes you panic, contribute to the atmosphere of panic that's spreading like this, and you make this situation even harder because people are going to lose a little confidence in that apparatus that they have. I repeat, if anyone wants to break something, he will consciously leave his cell phone because he knows and knowingly violates what he is breaking. You can't expect a criminal to rob a bank with his cell phone registered to his name. This is an inadmissible measure for me because the information on who is sick and who is in quarantine will be available to those who have not received the mandate to have that information. In that spirit and finally, the one who is willing to give up his freedom for a little bit of security, a long time ago, the smart people said, he's not even worth freedom. People come to their senses, we take reasonable measures to achieve results, we don't do anything with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195027	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195028	I thank the Honorable President, he would like a break on behalf of the HNS Club. So, let's consult again with the phone...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195029	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195030	Because in this bill of law, we have obstacles in our daily lives. Two freedoms are at stake here, freedom of movement versus rights, or two rights versus the right to a healthy and safe life. How do you reconcile them? I don't think anyone here has any doubt that people should follow and allow them to do so, and also provide those instructions and measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic. This is one of the proposals that can't be 100% effective, but it can send a message. We don't want to limit rights and freedoms here, anything more than they are limited to the rights of speech. Everyone has the right to speak by the Constitution, but they can't insult others. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and cannot endanger others. I think it's clear to all of us, and that we all agree on that, otherwise we'd be rebelling against the very measure of isolation. How are we going to ensure that? Of course this is one of the, I heard the suggestion that some bracelets are being put on, which is even more difficult, we're actually going to treat people like criminals, I hope it doesn't trap anyone, no one in their head. The court can only limit, we cannot do so now and it would not be effective, we need to ensure that these measures are not misused, that their rights to be informed are respected and that these data are considered to be classified to know exactly how these data are handled. You can't abuse it, but something has to be done for the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195031	Let's move on. I can get a short... ? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's time for a respected colleague, Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195032	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the Independent Representatives' Club, for consulting on this bill. In fact, the situation is extraordinary, we've already given up one piece of freedom, from banning movement, from self-insulation. However, it is such a situation that I think that people who are currently running the Civil Protection Staff who are taking care of this health aspect of the whole nation are actually using all possible methods and are really trying to get as few people as possible from the coronary virus and we don't have a scenario that we're looking at in neighbouring Italy or some other countries. So much seems to me that in the assembly with those of course who are eternal circusers and will remain, there are a very large number of people who are well-intentioned and my proposal is in fact to organise one session with the presidents of clubs to agree on any amendments that are either written or already written, so that their adoption can be passed, but that it is indeed maximum how to protect the health of citizens on the one hand, so that the minimum of those freedoms that should be protected by this law is protected. I don't think it's anything, so I think that everything can really be put on the table and that a decision can be made together on any other amendments, which no one else will get a crown from the head of the trap if any of the other things that our colleagues and clubs have proposed are recorded in the law, adopted, and thus we get some assurance that nothing else will be misused from all the things we really need today to have some control, primarily over those who are irresponsible, and there are. counterpart Pusic said most citizens adhere to the rules, stick to self-insulation and stay at home. However, one small part that can seriously endanger us unfortunately continues to walk the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195033	Thank you. Let me just tell you how serious this is. So, at the opening session, I said that it's roughly in the world of 18 and a few thousand, now new data is already in '600. So, just in these two hours that we're here, we've got 800 new dead of the coronary virus. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195034	Dear President of the Assembly, I demand a two-minute recess to consult, five minutes well, to consult within the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. So here we have one problem of technical nature. It's not possible to locate a man with the help of his phone, his cell phone at home. Base stations are mostly so relocated and located exclusively, we only know that, that the phone is inside that base station. That could be a few miles away. Then what's the point of all this? What's the point? I don't know what the point is. So, if we're going to know that someone's in that town today, in that village, in that neighborhood, but we won't know if he's at his home address. What have we achieved? Maybe that's a little more accurate, so we won't know if he's in the neighborhood or in his house. So this story actually doesn't make any sense. So it doesn't make sense. And to explain this with concern for the health of the nation cannot be explained. I'll repeat, if you care about the health of the nation today, put 2-3 offenders in prison of this measure and solved the problem, and make sure no one breaks it again, if you care. If you care about the control of the nation, and you said yourself if you declare quarantine that then this is true for the whole state, I don't want anyone, someone you'll delegate tomorrow can control absolutely anyone. Or do a trial, let's all see it at any moment any member of the government, let's see where our government is moving, let's follow them for a period, and then we'll introduce this measure if that makes sense. So, in the sense of preventing self-insulation, this measure makes no sense. The first thing anyone can play by leaving the phone at home, on the other hand, that the base stations do not locate the exact place of man but with a big, big error of a few hundred-metres, and perhaps a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195035	Stanka will be approved and we will go to the last request for a break, a respected colleague, Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195036	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, I am asking for a five-minute recess to be consulted on this, according to me, the insane bill of law. Why crazy? I've been traveling to work today through two police controls. So, sheckpoint because the ban on movement is in one good form already in effect. No one was complaining, no one was complaining, and I think that's enough at this point. Thus, it is no longer possible to leave the residence or residence without passes. Secondly, this bill is an insult to 99% of the population of the Republic of Croatia who are aware or responsible, who behave responsibly in these difficult times of crisis. So, it's an insult to them, to those who don't respect self-insulation, so I don't know how it's going to be possible in the next few days at all because it's all closed, all of them care, they need to be drastically sanctioned, and not punishing 99% of the citizens, because this is a punishment for them, not only punishment, but an insult to that bill, and I hope that you will understand it and be absolutely against it and withdraw that proposal at all, which makes absolutely no sense at all. Besides, I can't be surprised what you do in government as a priority, do you know that in this situation it can be very easy, if this takes a month, and perhaps even earlier in Croatia, hunger. Have you thought about it, have you thought about it as an employee or functioner, official of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to ensure a diet for all the population, not only for the poorest, but for all, because once the delivery stops, once we get into that situation, there may be a hunger, and when there is a hunger Then there's anarchy, then no one's gonna ask for the crown virus and for those dangers anymore than you're gonna have anarchy on the roads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So, you're in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195037	Comrade Whitey, fellow Whitey, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195038	Don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195039	I'm not yelling, you're not listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195040	Don't yell at me, Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195041	You have time, we've done two minutes and you haven't listened, and I have to warn you somehow. Okay, we're not going to fight, of course. It's not the place, it's not the time. Now we're going to give a five-minute break, and then we're going to continue the debate with the representatives' clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Let's change Croatia, dear colleague Damijan Vucelic, and will continue to be chaired by counterpart Hajdas Doncic. It's a date.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195042	CONTINUED AFTER THE COUNTRY We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Electronic Communications, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 881 We continue the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first is a colleague Damjan Vucelic in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia. Here's your colleague, Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195043	The chairman, thank you. Secretary of State. With this proposal of the Law on Electronic Media, you plan to try to insert in Croatian laws that in the event of a natural disaster or disaster, the authorities can control the locations and movements of their citizens through mobile devices. We fear that because of poor, intentional or not intentional terminology, it will enable this but future authorities to have totalitarian supervision of their citizens. Do you know which other state introduced cell phone tracking? Israel, a country known for its civil freedoms and rights. And until none of our media has transmitted it, the rest of the world condemns this as a violation of human rights. Someone from the government read this and immediately passed it on to Plenkovic as their idea, and there is nothing questionable about our media. The living wall is against any way of controlling and controlling its population. We understand that people are scared and that in this situation some will welcome the restriction of the movement of the potentially infected. But no reason justifies violations of constitutional rights and a potentially unlimited possibility of abuse. And of course the Living Wall will submit an amendment to this amendment to the law. And why is that? Because you deliberately or not deliberately put into the law the formulation of a natural disaster, which means that in the event that the Government declares a natural disaster such as colds, fights, droughts, floods or earthquakes that can now be monitored in Zagreb by the movements of its citizens, political opponents within their party or opposition, even individuals will be able to monitor the movements of their mistresses or wives, as some in this House have done so far illegally. The possibilities of abuse are unlimited and it is only a matter of time before and without the knowledge of the public. We're looking for an erasure from the law of the word natural disaster. What does it mean for our citizens if HDZ pushes this law through the Croatian Parliament? At a meeting of party club presidents, the prime minister informed us that the MUP already has software in whose self-insulation database citizens and people in transit through the country, and that was done by the MUP in a very short time, and currently over 10,000 people are being monitored. A list of citizens who need to be monitored can be made within a few days at most. For example. in the case of drought this summer, the government could declare a natural disaster and secretly monitor the movements of all citizens and use these data in a way that can be negative and all under cover of safety and health or life threats. If this commercial majority does not accept our amendment to amend and supplement the law and accidentally this law is passed, this way we propose to our citizens not to bring mobile devices out of their houses in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195044	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Next up is colleague Ranko Ostojić. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195045	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course this is about something that's too late. Probably this law would never have come to the agenda if it hadn't been proposed by the government seven days ago, they probably wouldn't have been ashamed of this situation at the time when we were actually announced that we were going to decide very soon here in the Croatian Parliament on what the SDP had announced seven days ago and asked for, and this is that in the crisis we must act on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and introduce the situation that corresponds to the present situation. We are in a state of emergency, we are in a situation where we are in serious trouble, and such laws or similar provisions that serve only for fear as some kind of preventive measure are not enforceable at all. So, leave your cell phone at home, save it, and you get the perfect alibi to go wherever you want, because if you're being followed, you don't have a bracelet on your hands, you don't have to carry that phone with you, so leave it activated, go outside wherever you want, and you have confirmed in accordance with the law that you were in isolation, and you're not. Therefore, there are no precise conditions. And what, of course, by fearing that and smart advice, I hope both correct and very constructive by the opposition with the intention of helping in this crisis, as we last did when we passed the Civil Protection Act on amendments to the law we were very constructive and said ok, the situation is what it is, the local headquarters started working on their own, we're interested in centralizing it, and to make it such a measure we supported. However, today the SDP will have to go with the amendment because we are risking, we are not sure whether this will still come to a vote and we are asking that the processing of data and Article 1 of this article be allowed exclusively in relation to persons who have been banned by a specific decision of the competent authority, such as self-insulation or a solution. We also ask that public communications and publicly available communications services operators, without delay, be informed by text message or otherwise appropriate to take such measures. Third, we ask that this be allowed only for the duration of the declaration of natural disasters, disasters, epidemics, infectious diseases, and after the end of the natural disaster to define that within 30 days the appropriate procedure will be launched and the data collected will be destroyed. We also ask that every two weeks you inform the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament of the actions carried out. Among the proposed additions to what is proposed, we believe that there are no adequate fuses to control and prevent the abuse of data collected and this amendment provides that the circle of persons to whom the provisions of this law, the mandatory notification, the maximum duration of measures, the handling of data after natural disasters, disasters or epidemics or infectious disease have been completed and that surveillance of the implementation of these same measures can be carried out. In a situation of course, if this kind of variant is acceptable, then we can agree that it is one of the measures that serve to fight the crown of the virus. However, I will list some other examples that speak of a similar variant, which is that they serve only for fear. Just look at the question of the pass, we've burdened the police, local headquarters, people, so it's not like in today's time when a small firm from Bakra can do both the M.O.P. and the state headquarters to solve that line issue pass. Secondly, normal zones need to be solved. You can't get into a situation where Strana is a few miles away, etc. There's a variant that people have to ask for help from the city so they can deliver the drugs and ask for a pass. Thirdly, the Housing Act, the one that runs the bridge on Krk, signed up there at the moment looking for a pass to go back to visit his daughter or son in Zagreb. So, completely other measures are needed and what we have at this point is total chaos, about passes, about people who should be doing much more important jobs right now. Therefore, those who are on the first line, of course thanks to all of them for the urgent services they are working on, but the question of variations in which certain measures can be implemented and which are the denial of rights and freedoms, you must work in a way that knows why it is brought, within what time, to whom it applies and what when it is over. If there is no abuse because like those on the first line of defense against the virus, so we here in the assembly must be on the first line of defense democracy, that is our obligation. A month ago, this was a statement, no panic, the coronary virus is a bit of a stronger flu, it was a statement from a man I appreciated, who tried, fought, etc. William Berosha. Today, exactly a month behind that you see where we are. In the basement, in these conditions, away from each other with measures that should not limit freedom, but lead us to a situation that we lose a lot of those things that might be easier to solve. I expected there to be a debate here in the assembly today, first of all, how to prevent crisis profits, how to stop masks from costing 30 EUR 100 masks, how to make a situation happen when a parent has to go to work and the child has to stay at home. I was expecting other measures, to get a report of the stockpiles, it's said we'll have everything, which means we have no cops, no firemen, no first-line defenses. And don't call them five-collars. These people are only looking for what was recently a situation and a regular thing for each of us. Until a few days ago, masks had changed for every press conference, since yesterday's supposed mask isn't necessary. Well, now, that information that masks aren't needed tells me about our vice president, and just now the president of the assembly is probably infected or sick. And who can guarantee for a man that he has or has no symptoms? So confusing people is very important to avoid. The worst service to this people is being done the moment he gets confused with information. Don't do that. Therefore, the gas stations that have now become a gathering site, birtiums, etc., says this afternoon it will be settled. You see how many things should be put on the agenda before this measure has absolutely no effect. You can trace the cell phone in two ways. One is based on a card that you can put in another cell phone or via a signal from the device itself, but it's a process that lasts. Secondly, we haven't had the prepaida variant, so you buy the prepaidas, and you're solved, nor do you know who owns it, nor do you have the obligation to register. Therefore, anyone who has little knowledge of this, this is absolutely unnecessary law and a completely unnecessary thing which is merely a test of what we might be willing to do, to make a decision. No use of this, absolutely nothing. I'll repeat again, alibi for any situation and breach of self-insulation. In this situation, the SDP requires, of course, that this assembly be the one to participate and decide, which will be in a situation where it takes the right measures, not these measures, this measure has nothing to do with, this has no effect, this is the variant in which you be smart, give up on this, we waste time here in the assembly, we waste time discussing things that can't have any effect. If you want me to prove it to you, if I don't want to play, I don't have time, as a responsible politician to play on that variant, to prove to you how many places if we agree there can be a cell phone within the hour, tracking that cell phone has absolutely no purpose at all. Therefore, let us not pass unnecessary laws if this is a test for the variant in which we will Excuse me. [[Intruder: Thank you, slowly finish]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195046	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195047	I thought this one, obviously I talked a little too long. I think I've said enough and my message is that in this assembly you're taking advice, this is not the option where it's time to play because you know we all have the same interest, to prevent disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195048	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following is counterpart Tomislav Panenic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, please welcome colleague Panenic. Don't you agree, since you don't, you don't see the time, do you, as far as I can tell? Then I'll warn you in the last two minutes, the last two minutes I'll warn you. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195049	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, we need to see what this proposal is based on, are we based on previous very good practices? If it is in previous very good practices, then it is likely that our police, a system that monitors, knows exactly where every criminal person is and can thus prevent him from taking a position to commit the crime. Or if she's not already that advanced then she can when a piece of work is discovered that it happened then determine who was there and then we know by that phone that person was there. That is how we should actually treat those who mean they have some history of crime to determine them in this way. But we have to say it's not like that, right? It doesn't work that way, it doesn't follow people that way, but it happens to us that we have some criminals who do it over and over again and sometimes they get caught, a lot of things don't get caught, and now we should actually do what we've been saying in the last few days to apply to the herd, so people look at it like a herd, let's put everything under one surveillance that's going to be so that no one can move anywhere without knowing whether it's justifiable or unjustly gone. I have to say that I have this problem, if we weren't effective in preventing what's so far been unfavourable are we going to, I'd say even some normal, reasonable people manage to apply this measure, and on the other hand, are we going to try to obstruct those who are unreasonable, those who will deliberately try to obstruct any measure, are we going to succeed there? It is not a problem with all these measures and restrictions on movement, with people who understand, who think about it, but we are aware that in every community there are a number of people who are absolutely irresponsible and who do not want you to try to bring them into some context of understanding, not only as a person but as a person but as an understanding and people around them and care about the whole society that they make every day a stupidity that they are not themselves aware that they can have bad consequences and they are very often not identified, nor a device that should be a measure of monitoring that in their case belongs to them by name and last name, and they do not want to be. How many of us have a person in the Republic of Croatia who doesn't want to be identified at all as said for Pride 5, knowingly using Pride 5 to not know about certain persons belonging to that device, that they can't be monitored, that they can't be controlled, so once again I ask how we're going to unequivocally determine that a particular person belongs to a specific communication device? I don't know. I personally can't imagine in any way other than directly listening to that number, finding that in this particular number of people he talks to, and that you can say here, we have found that this is exactly the number and we can finally track and perhaps finally find that what the person gave some number that belonged to him was actually a malversion. And that's a good question to ask about this restriction of movement. In the smaller environments it has a function practically of this law is that if it has some measure of self-insulation either he or he cannot leave his local self-government, mostly those pairs of maybe places within a limited circle, controls are present. At my exit from the site, there were 3 controls up to the highway, but when I entered Zagreb yesterday, there was no control, I went to Zagreb in 800,000 people as if nothing, no one stopped where I thought there were 800,000 people, where the greatest potential of any event would be the strongest control. No, she wasn't, she's in small areas with me where the place has 300 inhabitants, the municipality of 1000 people, there's presence, a correct presence, control and all that really needs to bring people into a framework to try to prevent this, and then we get into 800,000 people in one place as if nothing was happening. Sometimes you have to be lucky, but sometimes you have to say it can't happen. Now imagine any person that went anywhere yesterday on the highway and had a measure of self-insulation, could pass here into town, go through town, go back to their destination, and that's it. And now he needs one cell phone that, who's going to turn him in or take someone else, is going to be the measure of where that person is. I would, however, say that it must be unambiguous to determine which persons as such are designated to be isolated in order to protect others, have local headquarters that should be informed that they cannot issue certificates or employers who are responsible for them and that is, in my view, the best measure. And there can never be a measure that's going to be too far, that will absolutely immobilize us, because then there's going to be a breakthrough. It's very difficult for people to put those you put in prison and get out of jail, let alone something that doesn't have a physical barrier, but it's just an order or in some way an intention to follow them. There has been a lot of talk here about who will support, not support, and it is certain that there will be discussions about who is in order to protect the population, who is not. But I'm talking here, I am, I am, and my club is to make a real quality measure that will be able to protect itself, first those people to do no harm and then call them socially, but on the other hand, I'm not gonna be a general measure that we're going to vote here and ultimately stand on our conscience about how abused she is. And what's worse for me, which is that we thought that maybe we'd do a good job with it if we didn't end up doing it, they'd call us all together because we focused on one device, on one cell phone, and we didn't focus on one or more people to limit. And I think it's hard for us here without a government decision that I'm kind of feeling is going to be a correction of this, to make a quality position in this debate rather than waiting for the government's representatives to also make their views that we're likely to find out during the next time so that maybe a certain amendment or a proposal might be made. And here it is presented and we will give a few amendments and colleagues, I see that everyone is trying to take that measure that you have proposed to make it more natural and ultimately be one of the measures that helps solve this whole pandemic situation without being something that is a violation of any fundamental human right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195050	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Next is counterpart Vlaho Orepic in front of the Club of Representatives HSU-SNAGA-Independent Representatives and New Politics. Here's your colleague, Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195051	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I need to react immediately in a way that invites all of us to rationality and take the initiative in the field. Look, chains refuse to buy domestic products. Here's the measure, let the state buy it and fight the battle with chains. Account, account picture literally, check this out, today in the Imot mask 30 pieces 759,30 kuna, antiseptic for skin and surface 200ml 59, means these two things 819 kuna, 819 kuna these two things. Please, these are measures that clearly show us which way we should go. Let's stop those loan shark who's using this situation. Then, what I particularly want to highlight and what is always important, democracy is nothing more than a procedure. We have to respect the procedure, we have to be legalists, that's why we're invited, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're paid. Let's respect the Constitution, it's clear that it's an extraordinary situation, we declare an emergency situation, it's meant to be there, and it's known that it's done, and then act accordingly. Let us not take such measures that in themselves mean that we are in a state of emergency, and we bring them as if we are in a regular state. It's not right, it's not legalism, it's not respect for why everyone has to stand up for it. And no one has the right to do that, there can be 16 governments in it, he can't do that, we have to respect what's prescribed for everyone. We say it's not a violation of GDPR here not to work, but in the next law we're going to discuss today you have an entire article of the law. 5. which is dedicated to protecting the personal data of the prisoners, Art. The 5th of the next law today at the session. It doesn't matter here because we classify it as not protection of GDPR, be careful to explain, because it is about preserving the life of the subjects or other person. That's not true. We are hurting GDPR in this case unless, of course, we respect the procedure that has been prescribed, which is to declare a state of emergency by virtue of Article. 17. The Constitution. So we have a dilemma about whether we're going that way or not. 17. implies the situation whether it will decide on a two-thirds assembly on the situation or if the Assembly cannot meet to do so with the co-signator of the Prime Minister. One option is left there and an article. 16. etc. I don't want to get to the bottom of anyone, because we're all familiar with these things, I'm just saying that this tendency is simply unacceptable. We violate what we're here to guard. And who's disrupting that? It's just those who need to keep it and who are paid for it. We are in a democratic society, democracy is nothing, I repeat, nothing but a procedure and we are all invited and obliged to respect this procedure and we have no right to play it as much as our laws are written imperfectly so we always find curves. So I'm going to say specifically, these changes to the law would allow, please let us all listen for the public's sake, that the data on the location without traffic data is processed by the designated state, meaning name and location. It's not GDPR, it's not GDPR protection, is it? Next, it allows amending the law to ensure that the user or citizen of a citizen is not informed of the processing of his data. You'll do something, and you won't know a man about it. Thirdly, what this amendment allows, means the user or citizen is withdrawn from the right to consent and the possibility of denying the consent to process his data, and according to the prisoners... second criterion. So now we're going to talk about this second law, I repeat, which devoted the whole article. 5. To protect these personal rights. Gentlemen, this proposal is a violation of privacy that is unquestionable. Let us respect the legality, or respect, of what we ourselves have written and what we have voted for and vote in favour of the two-thirds majority, and we can draw such conclusions from that, before that no one can even think about it. The breach of procedure is here, more than obvious. We're trying to find some kind of abbreviations in that we're specialists, we always want some shortcuts. Suspending procedures is working against what we're paid to keep here, which is democracy, it's freedom and it's against art. 17 and 16. The Constitution of the So I'm stressing, the state of emergency has not been voted out, and certain freedoms have already been denied, so we're already in some kind of transgression compared to the Constitution. Watch out for the following, disease data, data on people who are quarantined in any way that we think is controlled by these measures will be available to people who are not authorized to have that information. Why would a teleoper have that kind of information or anyone in the system? We obviously have some tendency to give some great tasks to people outside the system to solve our problems. We also saw this in the situation where the law on lex Agrokor where people who should not have known about this problem were the bearers of solving this problem, amazingly and with the blessing of the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament. That's terrible. After all, this is an irrational measure entirely. My colleagues said clearly before, so you just can't do it, it's ineligible, it's unnecessary, I'm just afraid it's not some dictatorship from a higher level of someone we say let's do it something we have to do, etc., we can't behave in accordance with the dictatorship. And finally, if you see, we wanted to admit it to ourselves or others, in a way we're left to ourselves, and that's one fact, that's one input that we have to get a good, well-aware and act accordingly. So, in all of this, it still has to be noted that there are a whole series of technical possibilities that are applicable, which in this way would, as this measure is imagined, produce fruit or technically produce results, and we keep going with this measure that definitely crosses the limit of good taste, which is irrational, and I warn you this measure in this way contributes to the spread of panic in relation to this situation where we are. Don't let that happen. We have a whole series of rational measures we can handle. And our tendency, our concern for the current situation, is directed towards what I just said, about this account that's interesting, I'm going to show, 800 and something kunas a pack of masks that, by the way, don't protect in this way and some kind of disinfectant. People come to our senses, let's take the initiative, if war is waged by this war in a way that we rule the situation, not by someone else with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195052	Thank you. We're going to continue the debate. Our next colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash, is in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195053	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. And in times of crisis, we have to stick to the Constitution and the law, and it has to be on our mind all the time. The health, social and economic crisis caused by the coronary virus is already unfortunately visible and let us hope that the solution will be found as soon as possible so that both Croatia and Europe and the world will indeed face less severe long-term consequences. But what is also very important is that this situation, because of our own decisions, does not turn into a crisis of democracy and civil and human rights. It is clear to us that certain measures and restrictions are needed that we are not used to and are not used to. Let's remember our meeting that we had on Friday to discuss work this week and agree to think day after day. On Sunday, there was an earthquake in Zagreb, today is Wednesday, it seems to me that it was some distant year. We live in a situation like this, and we need to adapt to it. The GLAS party, we are a civil liberal alliance, we constructively approach the analysis of support for individual measures. However, we will pay particular attention and heed to all measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Civil Protection Centre to be justified and based on the provisions of the Constitution and the law and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Regardless of the seriousness of the situation, it is never a good time to sacrifice freedom in the long term or allow the unwarranted entry of the state into our privacy for safety. In particular, it is important that all measures introduced pass a strict test of proportionality and that any justified objective should be applied only in the most appropriate and mildest possible measure to achieve this objective. In recent days, we have witnessed the introduction or planning of measures in Croatia that include limiting and monitoring the movement and monitoring of electronic communications. What is important is that such measures, and if we introduce them, must be exclusively related to a specific situation. All colleagues who spoke before me talk about that if we really need it and we all propose certain amendments, we in GLAS have also proposed individual amendments, if all those who spoke before me, so there were no rulings with it yet, whether the time had not come for you to see these amendments, that maybe we would sit down and if we needed the amendment and the addition of this law that we really cared about what it would be like. Remember, not so long ago, it was a week ago, a week ago, on Wednesday when we decided that the National Civil Protection Centre would be a roof place, and then we made that decision without debate and agreed to do so. It's time we don't need to use this pay phone to send messages from this pay phone who are ruling, who aren't ruling, but it's time to make the wrong decisions. In this same hall, we have decided to stop all ties of Croatia's then-Yugoslavia. That's when we said we didn't want to be in one of those countries where the majority of citizens lived in ways to avoid certain laws, how to somehow get under the radar. Therefore, we must be very careful about what decision we will make. We have responsibility, we have responsibility to our voters, we have responsibility to this country. No measure may be taken where, prior to the temporary suspension of human rights, it is to be misused and used outside the strictly established reasons for the protection of health and life and the shortest period of its application. All personal data and collected information, if and so, must be deleted after the period of time if they have not resulted in legal actions. What we're trying to say is, we need to be extremely careful that under the exception of an emergency and preventing an epidemic from entering into the laws of dangerous cowardly eggs that we're going to have a hard time getting rid of. Let's not do that. What we can do is next. The first thing we can do is really think again about whether or not we need to change the law at all. That's step one. In the second step we think carefully and look at the amendments that we are going to, we are not going with these amendments because we are bad, so we want to show you that you are not doing your job, but with these amendments we are going for the reasons why we have decided, why the parliament is working, so we are protecting through our work democracy that this country, I repeat this place, remember this decision-making place, don't make any decisions that we will permanently regret. I read the provision of Article 17 here in the replica. The Constitution, our task is to protect our Constitution, our task is to protect the laws, our task is to responsibility. So there's been a debate about how it can be played, so there's no law that people who want to play won't figure out how to play it. At the same time, they'll figure out how they're gonna do it and they don't need to listen to how they can do it, they're already doing it. But our responsibility is not to pass in this time that is not normal, which is extraordinary, in which people really, you know what the unknown is is the greatest fear, don't and our task is not to spread panic, our task is to be reasonable, our task is to make the decisions that we make here clear and to be justified why we make them. It's our task in these times. Fear of the unknown is a serious fear. I live from this building two blocks away, in the lower city, so Friday when we were leaving here, when we had a meeting then I said, let's wait Wednesday, and we'll see what's next. At the moment I'm here, the firemen are tearing down the roof and the chimneys aren't building where I am and repairing the damage caused by the earthquake. It's the situation we live in. The earthquake will require much more talk, and I will not use this speaker for this moment, but I am using it and I want to highlight the responsibility of us as parliamentary representatives, the responsibility of the government and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who is personally responsible for no measure of temporary suspension of human rights. Thank you very much, it will not be misused and used beyond the strictly established reasons. [[Intruder: 2 minutes.]] On the other hand, it is the responsibility of each of us personally, that the measures that have passed the supervision of the Croatian Parliament and which are in line with constitutional values and the proportionate goal that is intended to be fully respected. A society of free citizens can only function if the regulations that are in force and if these rules are followed consistently. It's in this situation where we find ourselves extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195054	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, counterpart Miranda Mrsic, and after each speaker, one guard will actually disinfect and delete this part, we have now agreed, thanks for the suggestion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry he won't be before you, but there you go. The cube is like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195055	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is not the time for politics, it is not the time to pick up political points, but it is the time, but it is the time when we can point out things that are not good and prevent the government in the best sense, I believe that this law has also come in the best sense that the decisions they make are in accordance with the Constitution, that they are in line with our democratic order and that they do not lead to dictatorship. Probably when this law was passed or when the idea fell, probably in crisis headquarters, to go with this law, it was likely that another country’s experience was seen, one country that tried, except for these countries that had constantly in their legislation to control their citizens was Germany. The German Minister of Health tried to appeal to a provision in their parliament that teleoperators had to provide the patient with information from their relatives so that they could inform their relatives that the patient had suffered from coronary disease. Parliament did not approve it, so something that is, for example, within the family. What happened in Germany was that Deutsche Telekom made it possible for the health care center to have anonymous data from people in Germany to see where people are grouped, but notably, anonymous. That's not the case here in this law. And apparently it was the time when self-insulation began, when it was expected that this law would help locate those who violate self-insulation. It's been a while, there's been no speed, and now we're discussing this law that is absolutely unnecessary at this point. Gentlemen, we are in the fourth stage of the epidemic when completely other measures are going and it is quite certain that what the President of the Parliament has announced, as well as the president of the HDZ Club, is considering the activation of art. 17. The constitution means that we are introducing a form of state of emergency in Croatia that will allow certain rights of citizens to be suspended. We have suspended certain rights through the crisis headquarters and no one is against it, but we need to be in accordance with the Constitution, to teach us the future when there are similar crises. So I was surprised when this law came at all, I expected that this law would be withdrawn, but apparently, by ruling for something of its own reason, it did not withdraw that law because, again, at this point in crisis, Minister Berosh does not mean anything or will mean anything. What Minister Berosch and the crisis headquarters need, he needs, therefore, is to be given the authority of this House by virtue of an article. 17th and the sooner we do it, the sooner we can resolve these recommendations. Otherwise, if this law comes to life, we will have the establishment of "Big Brother" in Croatia and the law will live under the exception of the prevention of coronary virus, and it will disrupt the privacy of all citizens in Croatia. We listen, therefore, all the time to prevent the spread of the coronary virus, and most importantly, we need to stay home and that's the best measure. Neither this law nor anyone will prevent an epidemic unless we stop it ourselves and stay home is the most important message. Here I use the opportunity to tell the government and people who often show up on TV, who show up with those masks that are called FFM masks with the filter, that if you're not sick, then you don't have to wear that mask. The mask should be with those who need it, who are healthcare professionals who are in close contact with possible infected patients and should be with them, not with Minister Krsticevic or other ministers. If they're not infected, they don't have to wear masks. We must be separated, if we are separated here and here I urge the Government to provide healthcare professionals, all those who are at risk because they are working with potential patients, provide enough of these supplies. I believe that's what's going to happen with these donations. But to go back to this law, this law definitely introduces a political state in Croatia, what we did not want. What's next? I guess what, we're gonna go chipping citizens and each of us are gonna get a chip, and then we solved the problem. Pod, what worries all of us is that under cover of fighting the coronaryvirus we're going to law out a wide monitoring of each of us's cell phones. None of us can be sure that he doesn't remember anyone, and we could see who Mrssic is communicating with, so here we can track him because he gives us this law. Or who the Temple communicates with, and no one can do that because in this law it doesn't stand, we all gave amendments that go in exactly the same direction, that if this goes through, which, I believe, the ruling will give up, that he has the first to be followed, to know that he's being followed, to be at least 2 or 3 times a week, to inform him that he's stopped following, that this monitoring has control, that someone else is controlling it, to destroy it. There's no such thing. Obviously, at the speed, it was wanted to work to make this law come as soon as possible, but it was obvious that it was too late. If this goes away, we'll be just like in China, Russia or Israel because these are the only countries that monitor the movement of their citizens and once this law comes to life, we'll have a hard time getting it out of the law, because, say, climate change is a major threat to humanity. Under this law, therefore, the environment minister responsible for climate change in the Republic of Croatia can say we have a major threat we're going to follow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia via cell phones. I know we're all afraid of the virus, I'm a doctor, and I know what it is, all my life I've been on, fighting the virus bacteria and as a hematologist, as a person who's met every day with infections, but the virus will pass, this law will remain and we will remain the only police state in Europe together with China, Russia and Israel. A country chaired by the EU should not allow such a call to luxury to go to the eyes of its citizens. I don't think this would even occur to Orban when he declared it extraordinary. A state of emergency. [[/Intruder: Two minutes.]] The fundamental problem with this law is the lack of a fuse. I'll and our club will send this bill to the Constitutionals because I think they're injured, injured. 17. A constitution that clearly states that restrictions on human rights in situations of crisis can only be limited by a two-thirds majority of the parliament. We will vote against this law because we vote, I vote against the introduction of a police state and I call on the president of the assembly, he has already announced that the Constitutional Court and experts are being consulted because I believe that this law should be passed in the two-thirds majority because it deeply penetrates the article. 27. The Constitution of the I would not like to take part in the assembly session where we are going to pass this law because, again, we have broken all ties here with a system that has controlled its citizens in various ways and restricted their movement and I do not think it should be allowed to re-establish the control of citizens in this building and disrupt their privacy. The virus is there among us, we can fight in the way we can, the medicine is gone, there is no vaccine, and I will be very glad to see when the vaccine comes, and surely the vaccine will come, whether counterpart Pernar and all those who are hard at fighting the vaccination of children will be vaccinated against coronaryvirus 19. And that's what we all from this pay phone have to realize that citizens are watching us and that all of our messages we send are coming to citizens. It is therefore necessary to be responsible and stay home because it's the best guarantee [[Intruder: Thank you]] We're going to beat this infection. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195056	Wait for my colleague Curai. Here you go. We should only do one thing, one second, yeah. Thank you for your assistance. Here's my colleague, Stjepan Curaj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195057	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So time and time are almost remarkable, we can practically say that they are already remarkable. Besides, that's what we're talking about. 17. The Constitution says what, when and when we do. Now, do we call it that, then we don't need this law, and I think we better discuss this here. If we take extraordinary measures, then I'm guessing there's no debate. This debate will take place, already, several amendments among which we will submit ours in accordance with what we have spoken. What's the point? I agree, the goal is primarily to prevent this pandemic and protect people's lives and points. Is this supposed to come with a two-thirds majority? I think so. I don't have any problem at all. Let us take responsibility here, let us all here, individually and in the name of the citizens who have chosen us, enjoin what are the advantages, which are potential dangers, dangers if we don't bring this, dangers if we bring this. And what do we get with that? I think that's what we're doing, and we need to do it and take every one of us here's responsibility, and if this doesn't get 2/3 of the support, there's no law-making with everything that it means, or we need to try to see how we can actually get the very goal of this law itself, first of all, to force people to stay and not spread the disease, that in that way, even if we already know that they can leave their cell phone and walk, even if we know to what extent this is serious. And it's already done with this kind of thing when it's said that people understand if we're talking about certain freedom of rights to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, It's already a good thing we're sending a message here whether we pass this law or not. I think we should bring it to the two-thirds majority, that we should take responsibility here and say that under these and these conditions yes or no or... We didn't agree or we won't, so let's do something else. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's take responsibility, that's why people pay us and represent them. We'll do it with the amendments I told you to. First, this measure must apply only to those who have a measure of isolation not to anyone who comes to mind. Secondly, protocols must be adopted and thirdly all data must be destroyed 30 days after, so that personal data are protected in accordance with personal data protection, and these data must be considered as classified, meaning that it is precisely limited to who has the right to insight, under which conditions, under which reasons and how these data are treated and to bring it to the two-thirds majority. Can we or can't we, yes or no? Does this limit the rights? Yeah. We already have today certain rights that already are, the right to freedom of speech I mentioned, movements, you can't go anywhere you want to go. So it's important when we limit certain rights that they limit themselves to the goal of not doing harm to others. It's basic, it's normal today. Now here we're looking at whether we're going to expand it to limit someone's right to move, and we're doing it by limiting it so we can track it if it's moving that we can sanction it and warn it with the same goal again to protect the other one, that's the scale. Is there a better way? I didn't hear much. Is that supposed to, is that going to result in some measures, is it going to be these dangers much worse than the benefits? That's what we need to know. counterpart Pusic says he will. ... Then it's very clear, if this isn't going to bring anything, then we don't need to bring it in, clear as day. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why exactly the two-thirds majority, and if we take that responsibility here that we don't need this, we take it, each vote takes that responsibility, and that's what needs to be done. I think that if the proposals are adopted, and I see that we are quite similar and that we are colleagues from the SDP and that this is how this is determined that then it can take some measures without producing this damage. There you could agree with them in the end line, and these amendments I think are more or less the same, and even the amendments to the GLAS which, if they vote against, I don't know what they're going to do with it. And that's where the fight is today. If we bring the country in and declare a state of emergency, then we'll be in that class by now. 17. The constitution can suspend any rights and then we can bring it in, we can leave it to someone else and there are no more discussions like this. I think the basic thing here is to determine not easily just to say that something can be said but precisely under what conditions, who, how, why, what to do with that data, when to delete data, who has the right to see them, and what that is all about. If it all comes true and sees that it has no measure, then we don't have to bring it here, but if it doesn't come true and it has other than the psychological effect that it certainly has, but this debate is important today, because it's talking about the seriousness of the situation, then we can bring this along. But again let's divide that into a level of two-thirds majority, we all take responsibility. I agree with that because at the end of the line it's something that gets in the way of art. 17. The constitution, then, is that it can be brought in two-thirds, maybe legally it doesn't even have a foothold or it doesn't, we'll see what it's like to be an opinion, but I think we should definitely have it. And that's why we're here invited to take responsibility, and I'm proposing it right now. We will submit these amendments with a clear objective, and this goal must be to meet above all a clear, unequivocal and one single purpose of this so that only persons who are prescribed isolation can be monitored in such a way, that those persons must be informed, they must know, that the data classified must be managed with it, exactly who and how. If this law cannot be guaranteed, we do not have to pass and that these data are all deleted, especially after termination and in accordance with the protection of personal data. So, all the preconditions, up to the preconditions, and if we do, then we'll have a law that's going to be enforceable, and at the very least lead to some of the harmful other adverse consequences that we all and the Priors can only talk hypothetically about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195058	Thank you. Just a second before my colleagues, Radin and Bilek, I'd like to ask my colleague for a little assistance. Thank you. Here's your colleague, Radin. Half, half. Then I'll warn you a minute before your half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195059	In emergency and crisis situations, the institution in charge and in fact, the authorities show their maturity. We've seen around the world that politics didn't know how to deal with this pandemic situation. We're not going to mention countries from the U.S., Great Britain, that we're not talking about Italy, we're actually making a series of bad decisions and it's going through a method of trying and making mistakes. I will now do so in order not to repeat what others have said only one article of the EU Charter on Fundamental Rights. "Every person has the right to the protection of or the protection of personal data relating to him or her. Such data must be processed fairly for the purposes established and on the basis of the consent of the person concerned or on any other legitimate basis established by law. Each person shall have the right to access the collected data relating to him or her and the right to correct it. The compliance with these rules shall be subject to the supervision of an independent body.’; These changes to the law are actually after the good start we had last week are actually one stalemate in an intelligent approach to this situation. For what? First of all, because they're inapplicable for another reason because they're getting too far into human rights. The third reason is that these rights and many people who are not normally trained to have such data are available. There's been a lot of talk these days about the Constitution and the days of the Constitution, and I agree it's constitutional matter. In the event of a declaration of state of emergency, it all makes sense, but it also makes sense of course to monitor the entire population. To follow, however, the entire population that is not in the case, in the case of such an emergency situation, is inapplicable to my notion. We need to know who we're tracking, not just us, but who we're tracking, they need to know they're being followed. It is necessary to determine the time when the data will be monitored and then the data should be destroyed. I think that many, many, agree because it is the minimum protection of human rights. So we're all afraid of the spread, the spread and otherwise the already wide pandemics, and we're growing numbers, on the other hand, the suspension of human rights also has consequences that are inconspicuous, and this law is too general in this respect. So in tracking everyone we also allow those who are otherwise prone to criminal abuse, abuse the situation, and victims, meaning the persons they need to be followed because they are to avoid spreading disease, because they are sick victims, they are not criminals, in fact they will not, they will not, in fact, mind that their cell phone is actually controlled. And as for the cell phone, and here we could talk for hours, enough to If you know only a little bit about how the mob works with cell phones in your life, you'll understand I think it's possible to abuse it. [[You're almost halfway there, let me just say it. Thank you.]] So in the end, the spread of the coronary virus will be prevented and we will beat the disease if we are to be intelligently strict, not just strict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195060	Thank you. I'd like a colleague before my next spokeswoman, Mr. Bilek. Thank you. Here's your colleague, Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I think we're really on the verge of taking measures that we never thought of a few weeks ago. That's what the Constitution allows us to do. Unfortunately, with all the good that the headquarters requires of our citizens, here while we were sitting here, I got a photo from a colleague in one of the neighborhoods outside the store, a group of people are still there to order pizza, etc., and fortunately, at a few moments later, a second picture was sent where the police arrived and already solved it, so here's another thank you to the representatives of the MUP for doing their job excellently. Of course, will that be enough? Here's just these few moments of a few headlines that came out in the last 10 minutes. An increasingly difficult situation in the new core of the coronary virus in Croatia, two patients being administered to KBC Osijek later found to be infected. Or another, wine-positive specialist, self-insulating 160 employees. I think we're on the verge and on the border that we have to make very difficult decisions, decisions that already and now we're making some that limit certain rights of movement, certain rights. Is this the law? I think the government had a good intensity when they set out in this law, if he's this good, it's not, in this way not enough. Allow me to read only this article that wishes to be supplemented, or its explanation, which says, this article proposes to allow the processing of data on a spotless location in order to protect national or public security, only in cases where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has declared a natural disaster or disaster, or where the Minister of Health has declared an outbreak of infectious disease or the danger of an outbreak of infectious disease in accordance with specific regulations. The additional condition for allowing the processing of such data is that, in these cases, the health and lives of citizens without processing such data could not be effectively protected, in such cases the minister responsible for declaring a natural disaster or disaster, or the minister responsible for health care, shall be empowered to refer the request to public communications network operators and publicly available electronic communications services which are required to provide location data without traffic data for processing. For data processing, the competent authority of the State Administration shall be responsible for civil protection tasks, and rules governing data protection shall apply to the processing itself. Generally. It has to be defined, and that's why some of the amendments that I hope will be agreed on because it has to be defined exactly who it refers to, whether they're people in quarantine, whether they're self-insulation people, so you have to know who they're looking after, who they're dealing with or what they're dealing with. The second thing must be to determine the time for which, if we enter this story, which can be monitored. So in this case only during the duration of this pandemic, not the day after, the destruction of that data afterwards, the access to that data, who, how, how are they treated, how they are treated. The person being followed must be informed, it must be known that what some of the colleagues said here would not happen in general that no one else knows who is following with what data to listen to or anything else. It's all got to be I won't, I won't be long. [[Intruder: One minute more]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are several amendments yesterday, some of them are also proposed at the very digital session of the Committee on Human Rights which we have proposed as a conclusion, so I hope that if this law comes to the vote he will improve to benefit all of our citizens and in favour of stopping this pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195062	Thank you. Just before my colleagues Grumoja and Bulja, one second. Thank you so much for your efforts. Here is a colleague of Grmoi in front of the Club of Representatives of MOST independent lists of colleagues of Grmoi and colleagues of Bulj sharing the debate i.e. I'll warn you in six minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195063	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195064	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195065	I don't think I'm going to need that much since we've made our point, and I'm not going to touch a pay phone here that doesn't have this break between me and my colleagues. So this attitude of ours is clear. There are certain freedoms that we must not endanger, and in particular do not endanger them with one legislative proposal which I do not see will improve our willingness to oppose this epidemic, I do not see how this possibility of tracking a cell phone, especially if we consider that this proposal will be monitored by all citizens, how it will be made possible. The only thing that will be possible is for the government, which opens up the issue of certain abuses, will allow the government to monitor almost all citizens, to collect these data, to use these data afterwards, which is not something we should support. When I said it this morning, and I said it at the stop, I was making a statement, I was afraid that I would be because of this general hysteria that is ruling, I had the impression that we would all in this struggle to somehow represent such a position to hand over some basic human rights, but it's not like that. Our lives in these moments are not normal, our citizens' lives are not common, but we should also keep some minimum human rights because I think we can agree that any life is not a life worth fighting for, and the life where the government is watching over you and that without any rational explanation why it does it, I don't think it's a state, is not a society we want to live in. I saw that even when I expressed the view that President Jandrokovic was head-to-head when I mentioned Minister Bozinovic, who was headed by the headquarters and his totalitarian reflex from the former regime, I have justified this right to suspect that people, which were part of this repressive apparatus, which Miranda Mrsic also spoke of as a representative, would simply have such a tendency then and in this peacetime democratic arrangement, even though these are exceptional circumstances, use the mechanisms at their disposal to limit human rights. I believe it means that these recommendations our headquarters makes, especially as regards health instructions, should be listened to, but I also call on citizens, I call on the public, I call on the media not to rule out reason. Let's think about all the suggestions that come here, let's think about everything that comes to the public, so even though it's an extraordinary situation, we don't have to accept everything unspeakably. Of course, health instructions certainly, these instructions given by the headquarters regarding the suppression of the coronary virus, keeping social distance, keeping in their homes, hygienic these habits and things that we need to apply, but we can't get into a situation where everything that's being served by the government right now is being accepted unspeakable. I see that's kind of the attitude, and then whoever criticises or puts out some counterproposal is at risk of even declaring it a five-colonaire, I see such tendencies. That's not good. [[You're in the fifth minute of your conversation.]] Here, Comrade Bully will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195066	There's no need since it's not touched the stage, here you go. The stage. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195067	Thank you very much. Of course, freedoms are what has been fought for, bled out, and that when we talk about reducing freedom, we need first and foremost to be constructive, clear and accurate. This law is everything but that. This law essentially now that we have a crisis, when people of course the entire people of the Republic of Croatia, all citizens are simply under the pressure of the coronary virus in battle, of course I call them to listen to the National Staff as far as this recommendation is concerned. However, when this law comes at this time, and I will simply explain to you the honourable secretary, Vice President of the Assembly what it means. So the teleoperators that are owned by the foreign authorities will track our citizens where they are. We first gave it to foreign owners who now have the biggest profits across the EU, and they will now follow us exclusively in a way that, for example, they will. Now let me explain to the people that they understand better if they're watching is this important because of her, leave this phone here and now I don't know where, that phone is right there. I'm asking the question now if I'm going to St. John's Square right now. Marka, and the phone is here, where am I at that moment on GPS and on your knowledge? Is someone who took a crowbar and went to rob or who has an evil intention, have you solved the problem? I'm asking you to answer me, dear secretary, which, I mean, you just want to control the whole situation. Of course we have to invite citizens to self-insulation. Of course, citizens expect measures from us. They're expecting measures, here's the whole morning of people from Vrgorec, now they're going to be buying homemade strawberries, yeah, they're expecting, what about the markets? How, in what way will they sell it? So we have to take strong measures and, of course, on this matter of self-insulation that the police have control instruments and we have to give the police, health institutions, pharmacies, all of us living in Sinj, and unfortunately, there's already been an infection, the entire Civil Protection Centre of Sinj City is in isolation because the man who was infected, the man who was one of the infected was in the headquarters and we know and feel this problem. At this time, however, to pass these crazy laws, without criteria, without being written, without someone having the will to control people, movements, where they are. Well, that's freedom. As is freedom speech, so is the movement of freedom, and those we have taken away from freedom and those who should not, who violate the laws of the most severe criminal measures, should be increased by those who are in isolation and control. Find models, but don't put it on the whole society. I don't think this law is, we can't pass it at this point, we can't bring it at all because freedom is the most important, but of course the freedoms that have limitations because of this case against the virus make sense. But not in this way to control absolutely everything. So plant the chips on people. Here, it's easier for you. Chip people, chip, you'll know better because then you won't have a chance to leave your phone in one place and go buy another phone and work with another. Which turns out the criminal who's going to open the door, the criminal who's going to break the car, who's the crowbar. So he'll leave that cell phone with him. [[Intruder: Two minutes.]] No, you will follow people and control the situation. Once again, it is very important, the people expect complexity, we have accepted as an opposition all the measures that have been good regardless of what we have given amendments to the measures you have given. Not even the amendments were accepted, people were dissatisfied, entrepreneurs, as far as economic recovery is concerned, we supported, but we also asked you for co-operation, not to push through or create panic, laws that threaten certain freedoms that do not need to be compromised. There are models and ways to stop those who carry the irresponsible behavior of their contagion, there are models that work, but freedom is also very important. For freedom, they die. And it's not simple, I don't know how it came to mind this way to suggest this. Is if the president had tried something now, the President of the Parliament as something with the Constitutional Court, however, I would ask you here, and on behalf of the club, pull this away because we can't accept this. We can't accept this. We expect you to take measures to save the Croatian economy, expect health measures, respect the decisions of the National Civil Protection Centre, health measures, everything we respect, we accept, but now, at this point, to underline this to us, to control every movement of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, I think that at the very least, it is a threat to democratic freedom. That's what I'm telling you, endangering exclusively democratic freedoms that will cross because the virus will pass, we'll win, the people when it's complicated won And this time we're gonna win, and you pull this, either. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] would be most correct. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195068	Before counterpart Plazonic, we only have one intervention in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Thank you. Thank you. Here's my colleague Ante Plazonic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's no perfect law, so it probably won't be this one either. However, every law has an excuse, especially in a case like this. If it will contribute, if this measure will contribute to the rescue of one human life, then the adoption of such a measure is justified. We're actually here all the time talking about law-making, and it's not really about making a new law, it's just about changing art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The current law di clearly states that under certain conditions the use of electronic aid can be applied to determine the location of irresponsible people who, therefore, by their poor irresponsible behaviour, sow viruses throughout Croatia. If in that case, although I am clearly in favour of the protection of constitutional rights and constitutional freedoms, but if in that case we will break some of their freedoms, and in the protection of the health of our citizens, we will not, ha look, ma'am. Pusic, I think it is more important this moment to protect the health of our citizens than to make it impossible for someone to walk freely with Croatian and sow viruses. How's it going? Markotic said it nicely the other day, so it's these modern terrorists who, without the bullet being fired, are eventually killing a number of our citizens. For those of you, let the dictatorship go, at this time we need to resort to all the necessary measures to protect our health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195070	For individual debates, please replicas, this is on behalf of the club. Please. No, no, no, no. Please, please. Thank you for understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195071	The headquarters of civil protection, these wonderful people inside who report all day what it is necessary to do to protect themselves and reduce the threat are exposed to these irresponsible individuals today, or they sum up the results of the irresponsible behavior of a certain part of our citizens who do not respect their instructions that do not adhere to isolation, and to them it is precisely this law that does not apply to citizens who normally or have indications of contagion but act responsibly because they remain at home because their conscience tells them to do so, while others circle around and spread viruses everywhere. In that sense, we will advocate that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195072	Thank you, too. Before my colleague Zekanovic, I'm just asking my colleague for a little intervention. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195073	The most precious thing a man has is freedom and freedom is invaluable, there is no price and no one can limit it. No one, absolutely no one. However, some people who were once employed in the Secretariat for the People's Defence of the former state, Yugoslavia, are specifically Mr Bozinovic, apparently some of the measures and instruments he then used, trying to use today. Okay, well, we'll forgive him for saying earthquakes, not earthquakes, but measures that slow down freedom as in the darkest times mean, the communist regime, and that won't work for him. It bothers me here that I've heard from a colleague from the SDP, they'll support this law that's bad, if it's a two-thirds majority. I won't support him with either a relative or a two-thirds majority because this is a bad law. So, I don't want any citizens of my country, any of them, any Croat or Croats, anywhere in Croatia someone like that "Big Brother" to observe at any time. I don't want to. If anyone likes it, let them chip freely, I hear colleagues, suggest chipping, bracelets, feel free to put necklaces around their necks, bracelets around their hands, chip under their skin and put it online so we can track it. I don't want to. Not that I want for myself, I don't want for my family and I don't want for any Croat or Croat. I don't want to. Because that's not good, that leads to totalitarianism. This is just the beginning and this really isn't good. But if we want to prevent an infection with a coronary virus, that should be prevented in 5 seconds if there's political will. Do you know what happened to migration, illegal migration at the time Mom Merkel said stop? They stopped, because it's after she's a Mrs. Chase. Merkel went to the border between Greece and Turkey, did one migrant enter the EU more? It's not. Because there was political will. Unfortunately, several of them also died, a few of those ships, the speedboats turned, but none tried to immigrate to Croatia anymore. At the moment when Comrade Bozinovic wants to punish himself in one real way, he is right to punish anyone who violates isolation, which is a prison sentence, so there is no talking. You're going to jail because you were a terrorist. Because your irresponsible behavior puts us all at risk here. Then there won't be any problem. So the prison sentence is gone at the same time and this problem is gone. And all of this, if anyone wants to experiment, I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to let her experiment a little with this. Let's see, here's what it's like to follow. Our Prime Minister, his deputies, or here he is, all those who defend this law, here are colleagues from HDZ who tend to do so, let them give their phones so that someone can follow them every day and all day. I'll say this too, I always come from this position of believers and I don't need to be followed by a man. I'm transparent about what's up there. He follows me every day, all day, I believe that. And to be followed by someone to whom Mr. Bozinovic has given his order, that won't go away. So, with severe sanctions against offenders, let the police do their job, strictly and sharply, normally and in any other way possible, but with some kind of electronic tracking measures that can get out of control, which can get out of control, this is just the beginning, that's bad. This looks very harmless at first sight, very harmless. Let's just do it this time because the situation is what it is. Well, my people, we know that there was a hundred and a single example and a situation when someone was lost, anywhere, so it didn't have to change the law, it would immediately locate that person's cell phone that was wanted. So, there is no need to change the law for this, so the court can at some point make that decision if someone is suspicious, to follow, but in the end I have to point out that this law is also pointless because it is not enforceable. For the simple reason anyone can leave a cell phone in their house and go out wherever they want. And the second reason the method of triangulation with the help of multiple base cells is not so accurate. It's not good enough for me if I know that a man is moving in a radius of several hundred meters or more, I want to know if he's in self-insulation in his house, and we can't find out by this method. The intention of this method is something else, or maybe it's just some kind of, uh, intricacies of the proposer. Here I hope that here the promoters were in a bit of a hurry with one measure to show off the guys, but maybe it's not just that, maybe it's also the suggestion that through this crisis, one control that's not good is being introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195074	Thank you. That's what we're done with the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Now we continue with an individual debate, the first colleague of Peja Grbin. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195075	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Are we going to have individual debates like this or are we going to go to a pay phone? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195076	I don't care. If you want, we can have worse. All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195077	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The position that if a dictatorship is needed is then a dictatorship in the Republic of Croatia in which parliamentary democracy is not acceptable. The Republic of its democratic institutions must always, especially when they are at risk because of an emergency or some external threat, be it by someone conscious or by one organism, and it is questionable whether the virus is even an organism that has no consciousness, but threatens the life and health of citizens and citizens of the Republic. And when we are threatened by such a threat, we must safeguard democratic structures because the threat will pass, and the danger of some of the measures being imposed without control and without control remains and is then great. And why do I say it's big? Because that's what history teaches us, because it teaches us the past, and because we have seen that often in countries that went after logic if there is a dictatorship to be a dictatorship, extraordinary circumstances were used to introduce that extraordinary state that included an army on the streets, police on the streets and afterwards, and in the wake of these threats to maintain that state of emergency in order for someone to remain in power. We in Croatia will not allow this, and therefore I am extremely glad that my colleague Bačić said on behalf of the HDZ Club this morning that they finally accepted that these measures, but also those we had brought in the previous days, which were for example to limit freedom of movement, should be carried in the way that the Constitution predicted, which is two-thirds of the majority. Because of those coworkers and colleagues I've been listening to for the past few hours, which I think they've been sitting on my ears, let me explain something. The SDP advocates' club will not support this law unless adopted by a two-thirds majority. The SDP advocates' club has indeed made this a condition, if it is not the two-thirds majority, then we certainly won't vote for it. But we have set another condition, which is the adoption of our or some other amendment from colleagues and colleagues who have proposed it, which limits this measure and reduces it into constitutional frameworks and specifically. The measure must be limited to a circle of persons who are determined to self-insulate and prohibit movement, the sea. The measure must be time-limited. The persons to whom the measures are concerned and who will be supervised must be informed, it must be regulated how they will deal with the data after the measure has passed, and we clearly define that the data will then be destroyed unless they are used to launch the appropriate judicial procedure and finally seek the introduction of parliamentary supervision. Parliamentary oversight and, specifically, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security which otherwise deals with such measures is necessary to prevent abuses that my colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me have rightly pointed out. Only with such an amendment, or with such an amendment, and only with the adoption of such a law by a two-thirds majority will we fulfill what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has put before us. And in times of crisis, and today is indeed a crisis, we must return to the fundamental act that governs this country, which is the Constitution and try to make sure that we respect the freedoms and rights guaranteed by this Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195078	Stay here, comrade Grbin, we have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a colleague of Hrelja's. The replicas are in the microphone left of me, right of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195079	Dear fellow coat of arms. So it is certainly true that despite parliamentary surveillance it has proved that the data of the girl, that we have poor systems and poor control and now all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know it. Now in their homes, most of them are closed, thinking about when this will end, whether they will have food next month, if they will have work to do, what their perspectives are, and now we are still talking about going to one non-selective measure so that everyone can still have to be listened to and listened to in some way, that's how this law was designed. Of course, we should limit, of course, that both the HSU club and the independent representatives will stand behind these amendments and join the same requirement if they adopt the amendment and bring the two-thirds majority that we are in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195080	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195081	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. Last week, on Wednesday and Thursday, we discussed far more concrete proposals for Croatian citizens and far more important proposals than this one today, we discussed measures that, even though the shortcomings are somewhat easing the situation of both our citizens and our workers and employers. Today, however, we are discussing a listening measure. When such a measure, regardless of what is said here, is about tracking the movement, it's a form of listening. No matter what such a measure may seem justified to someone, we must be skeptical, it is our job to be chosen by the citizens and therefore we insist on those restrictions that we have introduced, and also on the threshold of the supervision that parliament will have. And let me take this opportunity to warn you of something else. Minister Aladrovic announced today changes to labour law and restrictions on labour law. I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to take that announced threat, almost equal. As a coronary virus, let's pay special attention. [[- Intruder. Thank you.]] And let's stop it from happening. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195082	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Miro Totgergeli. Here you go. We have three replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195083	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your individual debate, you said it was the beginning of the introduction of dictatorship, and that's something that doesn't sound a bit in this Croatian Assembly at all, and I don't believe that you want to put one panic among people, but to talk about that any law that we bring here is the beginning of a dictatorship, and especially when we know which threatened us at this point and say that when this threat goes away that the measures that this law provides will continue, I think it's a little ominous and that it's a little flashing of the wrong messages from the Croatian Parliament and that's why I'm asking you to correct yourself in that part because I don't think that't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195084	Here's an answer from a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195085	Dear Mr. Totgergeli, I don't have to correct myself, you should have just listened more carefully. Because I said let's not let this be about entering a dictatorship. And I'm gonna do it again, so let's not let it happen. All together, all of us who are here and colleagues and colleagues who, because of the agreement we have reached and the need to be distant here are not, can together take measures that will be meaningful, while at the same time not too intrusive for our citizens and citizens or we can reach for an alternative to the measures introduced by Singapore for example. Singapore has made an application available to all citizens of that country. Singapore has slightly more inhabitants than Croatia, over 700,000 citizens of Singapore installed the app and ensured that they do not approach each other if they are composing or having a coronary virus. The application was made open and accessible to all countries, all cities of the world. I therefore call upon the Government to see what they have done in Singapore And to serve their example, which is indeed good. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195086	Thank you. My colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195087	Comrade Grbin, we have been working together for a long time and I know absolutely that you speak very clearly and speak very clearly about the relationship of any law regarding the Constitution. And what you're discussing really needs to remain striking, exactly what a colleague of Totgergelia did to me, it didn't bother me at all because the fact is that we can't let a measure like this be the introduction to dictatorship because these are already some parliamentary democracies that have passed. Therefore, when it comes to some other measures we have even unanimously voted for them regardless of what we disagreed and discussed, but what my inquiry to you, it does not seem to you that this law is absolutely unnecessary at this point, is it going to be a cowardly egg that we will not be able to get rid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195088	Thank you. Answer, there you go, buddy Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195089	Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash, I will first look back at the first part of your replica. The Croatian Parliament showed last week that in times of crisis, it can be responsible and expedient. It is now that others who are involved in solving these problems that we are facing, and in particular I mean the Government, are so responsible and expedient. For example, for days I have been warning of a problem with deadlines in court proceedings. By Minister Bosnjakovic we haven't heard anything yet. And today we no longer have a virus but we have an earthquake that many of our fellow lawyers in Zagreb cannot open their offices and access their files to write a complaint. And as for the second part of your replica and the questions you asked me. No, we must not allow this law or any other similar to it to become a cowardly egg in the nest of Croatian democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195090	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague named Stephen Curaj. Can I have a second, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195091	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the first clear human rights must be above all else. There's nothing there with them in the thongs, moving around, little is not, it's gotta be clear to everyone. It is not just the Constitution that obliges us to do so, but every, every civilizational reach, common sense. We need to make a decision here what to do when two rights are contrary and how to determine accordingly. On the one hand, we have the right to privacy, on the other hand we have the right to security. By security, I mean health care, to protect you from health threats, from all other aspects that can endanger.../incomprehensible/... who and various other rights that enter into freedom of speech, to restrict movement under certain conditions, etc. And so far, it's always been universal law and in our Constitution that you can practice your rights until you harm someone else, you don't do harm. That's why I don't think anyone here with common sense says that someone has been violated by his human right if he's put into isolation. And that's normal. I haven't heard anyone here say that human rights are now being violated by those who are being self-insulated or isolated. Whatever that means, regardless of the matter of their choice, but basically it's actually something to impose. What I've already said on behalf of the club, we need to see the meaning, the purpose we're going to achieve, whether we're going to get more damage than benefits and take that responsibility. Responsibility is very simple, the goal is clear to prevent the spread of the virus, thereby reducing the risk of loss, unnecessary loss of human life. On the other hand, we have a threat to privacy, something that can be misused, and if we here or tomorrow are of course not to accept the amendments that we are going to go with, clearly does not make it clear how these data will be handled, in which way, to which end, we will not be able to do this.../incomprehensible/... but if what I said is only relevant to persons in isolation, that they must be informed, that the data must be treated as classified, and we know what it means, who has all the right to access them and on the other hand, that these data, however, will also be reported to be destroyed at the end of monitoring and use of that data, and the law itself says that in fact, special rules on the protection of personal data are applicable to the data that they must be destroyed within 30 days. That's good, maybe still specific. And then we actually see if it meets that basic criterion that I said, the scale of proportionality. And that's the basic question here that's ahead of us. In my opinion, if we take all these measures and declare this 2/3 of the majority since certain human rights are suspended by this, unequivocally, unequivocally, then perhaps this is the principle of proportionality, however, going towards protecting this as regards the security aspect and spread of the virus. But only under those conditions. So casual as it came before us no. It's nice to see here that they're on the same side, now I don't know if it's a good or bad person who I never thought would be on the same side, I'm talking about my colleague Pusic and my colleague Zekanovic who are acting equally for some different reasons, but actually.../incomprehensible/... are on the same side, and I think that actually the right side of proportionality is possible, and I think it's the right price of proportionality to be on the right side for our citizens. [[Intruder: Minute.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Yes, well.]] What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195092	No, not all right, I mean.../incomprehensible/... that's what I'm saying, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195093	This is a little bit more informal right now, so if we accept what we're going to submit and an amendment colleague actually what they all said, then we can weigh that principle of proportionality. As suggested, we won't actually be allowed to do it, and I think we're all. to actually set this main goal, to protect our... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195094	Thank you, stay, please, stay here. We have two replicas. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go. And after him, fellow Miranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195095	Dear colleague Curaj, you will anyway do as Vrdoljak tells you, regardless of what you are playing here for a pay phone what comes from your party's leadership from Mr. Vrdoljak you will do as he bargains with Mr. Plenkovic, but this, this scenario and what is happening to you doesn't really answer for the reason why this is.../incomprehensible/... threatening large coalitions, if it meets SDP's demands, the SDP will, along with HDZ, and then you don't need 2/3 of the majority to vote this law. So don't bother, just see if your cell phone called you to see what you're going to do and that's all you can do and you have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195096	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195097	Thank you. Well, everyone judges against himself, and I reserve your right to judge you and others, and speak more of you than of me or of us. Whether we need it or not, I'd be the happiest if we weren't now, the happiest, whoever this was to me, whoever this was in the interest of the party, it's not, it's clear to everyone, but right now we're not here to invite what we're doing in our interest, our views, in party terms, in any way, we here now have to do more than ever in the interest of the citizens. And that's the only attitude I've been performing here not only now but for the last three years. In the interest of the citizens. We have a remote school today because we've been doing something and we've been preparing for the next 2.5 and 3 years, thank God, if there's ever been a little doubt that what we've done may not have been sufficiently deviating the principle of proportionality now in this crisis shows that and how it is. Is what would have happened if we hadn't waited this long enough for this crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195098	And the last replica, Comrade Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195099	Comrade Curaj, you are part of the parliamentary majority, so this madness that has gone on with this law seems to not stop further because Minister Aladrovic has confirmed that a law is being suspended by the Labour Act, and it is called the Law on Editing Working Relations under the circumstances of the declared Coronal Epidem virus epidemic. So, not only are we going to the police state, but we are going to suspend collective agreements, the Labour Act, which is a democratic fluid that should be maintained at the time of the crisis, Denmark has maintained this with a simple agreement between trade unions, employers and governments. And instead of negotiating in a tripartite dialogue, the government obviously reaches out to a law that will come before us. You, as the ruling majority, do you agree as a party with this way of breaking labour rights, rather than agreeing with everyone in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195100	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195101	Thank you. I'm not familiar with the law in question, if it's the one that allows our officers to work publicly from home, then I support it. The law can only be changed by law, not by agreement, not by hand, but by the law that must pass here. Now I don't know exactly what the law in question is, the idea that's on the finish line, which I'm saying is to make it legal for people to be able to do their job from home, then of course we'll support it, I believe we'll all support it. If they get into a certain right in which way what they would do to a colleague, what they said that all minor public officials are left without a salary or a minimumer, I don't think it's good is a lot of those people doing very important and quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195102	Thank you. We're going on with an individual debate, an apology I thought you were done with, excuse me. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Miro Totgergeli, but only one intervention before. Here you are, colleague, individual debate, colleague Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195103	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So maybe first you should say that there was no such thing as this law at all, so all of us who were following it, and all of you colleagues, you must have followed the presses of the National Civil Protection Centre, in fact, there was no press last week, where one of the journalists didn't ask in which way you think to ensure that those who are prescribed self-insulation who need to stay at home, in which way you think they're really at home and that those who are irresponsible and don't use that self-insulation to detect them in some way, and then only after that stage to get to write and fines that are not small. There are several steps of these penalties, and we've heard here some colleagues want these people caught breaking self-insulation that should put them in jail right now. Now that I'm listening to all of this, then I don't know what the bigger dictatorship is, he's given the dictatorship to put them in jail right away or it's a dictatorship if we do this law and in some technical way we try to get to the data that adheres to that self-insulation and who doesn't. So, this bill came practically because the citizens were almost looking for it, they were looking for a way to keep civil protection headquarters from those national, county, city and municipal to get into a situation so that they could check who adheres to those self-insulations and who doesn't. The citizens were practically looking for it. If we read this bill a little bit better, which actually only complements the Law on Electronic Communications, and if we don't view it as a law that is for ourselves and we don't see any other legislation that we have around, then there will be some ambiguity. However, if we apply these amendments with all other laws then it is quite clear that these amendments to the law apply to this situation right now, to the situation while the pandemic, the epidemic of the Minister of Health was declared only then and only then, and so that any abuse of data is out of the question because other legal solutions that are being prevented here and the call are actually being made. We do not need to observe this amendment as everything must be written in this article of the Law, says some other laws that continue to apply and apply. Here we are simply introducing the possibility that, under these difficult circumstances, we are currently implementing measures that will contribute to civil protection headquarters being able to carry out a measure of self-insulation in those who need to be in that self-insulation. And I'm 100% convinced that's exactly what most citizens expect. This is what the media were practically asking the question from day to day of the Civil Protection Staff and when you look at when this proposal was written, so it was just written at the time when the headquarters's presses kept asking that question. So last week, last Thursday, and today we're discussing because last week we couldn't discuss it. And that is why I cannot agree that in the Croatian state in our democracy in the system that we have built in these 30 years that any article of this law could be the beginning of any dictatorship. And I'm sure you don't think that either, most of you today, and I'll even say we're all on the same side right now and in this time that we've been hit by it might be a little bit different thinking, maybe some individuals are using it for their self-promotion, but in the end, we'll be aware that we have to find ways if this is the simplest and easiest way to control now how many people are in self-insulation, who violate it and that we can apply the criminal provisions that are prescribed and which inspector and works then, of course, we need to support this form of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195104	Thank you. Stay here please here you have seven replicas on your exhibit. He is the first colleague of Miro Bulj, followed by his colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195105	My colleague, of course we're all in the same problem and we'd all like the best measures to deal with this coronary virus. However, you claim that this measure is excellent, that it is what citizens are looking for, civil protection headquarters, volunteers, citizens, but it should be clarified to citizens that this measure is insane. We have the right to an opinion. It's not populism. So again, if I leave my cell phone here and go to Mark's square now where I'm at GPS and your measurements, where at that moment? So this is crazy. After all, freedom has no price, and measures must be taken to ensure that people who are in self-insulation remain in self-insulation, the strongest measures, not crazy measures, dictatorial measures. That's not good for freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195106	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195107	So, it's not due to one example, it's like that one steak needs an entire cow, so here and here because of one example of the possibility of someone leaving a cell phone and going away doesn't have to say that this bill isn't useful and it's not good and that a good part of it won't even work when they hear that we're proposing such a legal proposal. On the other hand, all those in self-insulation, if someone calls him, he has to pick up the phone and that way you can already see if he's with a cell phone or not. But these are now the things civil protection headquarters have to do. They find themselves in a very difficult situation that now they don't even have the right way to control those who need to be in isolation. I mean, we had a situation with the drugstores, as soon as the problem came up that the 5.6.10 found in the pharmacy made a provision and things changed right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195108	Thank you. You'll continue, thank you. Next is his colleague, Mrsic, after him, a colleague of Plazonic. Here's your colleague, Mrs. Gristle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195109	Well, fellow Totgergeli, you obviously have to defend it or you don't understand it or you don't want to understand the messages we're sending from here. The law is first inconclusive and unnecessary, it was needed three weeks ago when we had a situation where the virus wasn't in our population and besides, and the data is not gonna be crisis headquarters or civil protection but will be working by the police. Well, that's clear to everyone where this is going. And all the time, we've been warning that it's unnecessary, unimplementable, and that at this point we don't need it, and they don't get it by ruling. Obviously they understand because they want this law to be passed with a two-thirds majority, and it won't be passed unless certain changes are made inside, but we all think it's completely unnecessary. There are no restrictions, as long as it lasts, people are not informed that they are on measures and that is the introduction to a dictatorial state and... democratic rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195110	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195111	The body of the state administration responsible for civil protection matters will implement these measures only as long as there is a need for them. As a growing number of people are infected, as more and more people are in isolation, I just think that there is some solution, and now we have a proposal for this solution and the people in the ministry say that they can do it, that we need some solution that will be even more people, I think we're going to need even more solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195112	Thank you. The next is counterpart Plazonic, followed by counterpart Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195113	Comrade Totgergeli, here on several occasions has been said that the amendments and additions of this law are an introduction to listening to our citizens. Please explain this situation or this is actually a clearly defined law that will be in use of clearly defined criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195114	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195115	So I'm just going to briefly comment on this, so location data, exclusively and location data and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195116	Thank you. A colleague, Zekanovic, followed by his colleague, Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195117	First of all, I have to say that Croatia has one great fortune that was not the first to hit the crown of the virus in Europe, but it was Italy, Italy is cannon meat, this is a very important note and I will keep it in mind. Furthermore, the very important thing is you said that the sentence of prison, you replicated to mine that it was something crazy. And how would you punish those you found using a cell phone to move around without control? I would shut down anyone who was involved in terrorism and wouldn't think much. But what matters here in this bill, and I don't know, is that you saw it. 104.a. says that according to special regulations, this law will be defined, as will the Civil Protection Act, where we have given the Bianca support to your government, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, and we do not know what awaits us. I don't trust the government of Andrej Plenkovic, I don't trust Deputy Government Mr Bozinovic and I don't want this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195118	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195119	Well, I'll look back on what you said today, and that's that you're in control of what's up there. I also agree that I'm also under control of what's up there, and I think the one up there is now controlling you and me in what way and what we're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195120	Thank you. Next is colleague Pernar, after him colleague Pusic and then colleague Hrelja and then that's about your replicas. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195121	Thank you. Your Honor, you said that in this crisis we are all on the same side here, but I can say that I am not on HDZ's side because I do not think that, without a court order, all citizens of our country can be listened to. You also claim that citizens seek and want your measures, but from interactions with the citizens I have I have not gained that impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195122	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195123	Comrade Pernar, you are always special and so in this situation. And the interactions with citizens, probably with a higher percentage of citizens, then I have an interaction than you obviously do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195124	Thank you. My colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195125	So, I don't understand what it means that citizens were looking for this kind of surveillance big brother. Citizens didn't ask for anything de facto, but journalists at press conferences asked how people in isolation would be controlled, so they wouldn't mix it with self-insulation, they're not controlled, so people who are in isolation. These people who are in isolation have been controlling themselves so far and the police have been coming to their door, they've been keeping themselves in check, and I know from the experience of my friends who directly told me when they were in this situation. As for this and the collection of this kind of data, so you HDZ should be the most against it. Half of your leadership, their text messages were all over the media, we know that this kind of data storage even when it's, when it's illegal to use them is used and coming into the media. It's dangerous because of a culture of this kind [[Intruder: Thank you]] Control. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195126	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195127	I understand there's a fear. But why do we always first see that everyone, just everyone, will use everything for something that's negative, for something that's been wrong for some wrong shop? So here, the data in the almost 100% amount should be used for what we need and then well implement the other measures that are prescribed what to do with that data after it goes through. You don't need everything right now just to watch what's going to be negative, you need to watch something positive. And as for citizens, I assure you that citizens are really how many people who are in isolation are growing more and more wondering what you're going to do, how are you going to control it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195128	Thank you. All right, can I just have one last line, and then you're looking for a break? May I have your permission, please? Thank you very much. You're very kind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195129	Comrade Totgergeli, the citizens did not ask for this law, the citizens asked that the executive authority, that the institutions of this state operate and to protect them from those who do not comply with the rules of isolation they are assigned. So, to be precise, the fact that institutions don't do their job right to us has always been no reason to change laws in this way and threaten human freedoms. If you want to know what the citizens were looking for, the citizens asked with 50,000 signatures of the amendment and the addition of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, that law that the HDZ government, your government, had smoothly rejected and called it pulsism. So, don't, don't play with what the citizens were looking for. Citizens worship their civil freedoms and don't let them get in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195130	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195131	We are at a special time and your claim that institutions are not doing their jobs, I cannot agree with that. I think that in today's day, so in these last month, the institutions and people who work in these institutions are really giving their maximum to do their job knowingly, from the inspectors, from the police, from the people who are in the Civil Protection Commands, from those who are their operational forces, and these are both firemen and GSS and volunteers in the Red Cross. So they all work and do the best they can, but the number of people that we're growing the number of infected, the number of those who are in isolation can't be covered anymore without the help of the technique, and that's why we need this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195132	Thank you. Please intervene and colleague Panenic requests a break on behalf of the club. No, no, here, come here and you, just wait a second. Please, thank you. The rules have changed. Well, here you are, since we've allowed ourselves here, then it's only fair that we let the breaks happen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195133	Thank you very much. In the name of the Club of Independent Youth List, we are looking for a break if this bill of law has been approached with one confidence. However, this debate here has shown a strong differentiation and respecting the arguments of colleagues who debated on behalf of the opposition to state, even some ruling and in the name of the ruling and the proponents, we see that there has actually been one, one significant difference in attitudes that would be consulted if in this way we are really going to come from one, one proposal to a very difficult situation where interdependences are becoming more and more intense. So, I really must warn Mr. Totgergeli when he says almost all the information that sounds very bad, because if all the information is for a purpose, it's one thing for everyone, but if almost everything means one piece of information goes for some other purpose, so it sounded very difficult to say and say, and here we would certainly consult, so we might try and bring this debate a little bit into a framework that is more appropriate for this moment where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195134	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break. So we continue at 14.15 with our colleague Pernar. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING, I ask MPs and MPs to take their seats. Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195136	Dear colleagues and colleagues, for years I have warned our society, or our people, that it is before us to establish a new world order in which things we thought were unimaginable until yesterday, become our reality and, on the other hand, that the rights and freedoms we have until yesterday will no longer be enjoyed. All this time people were laughing at us, calling me a conspiracy theorist, a clown, a lunatic, giving me all kinds of epithets. However, what is happening today in Croatia has shown that my warnings were not just a mere philosophizing or some gossip or some conspiracy theory, but my predictions were true. What the state has done right now is highly dangerous. The state has limited the freedom of movement for citizens, who are guaranteed by the Constitution. Today, if you are going from city to city, you are in a situation like in areas under Israeli occupation where you must have passes to go from one city to another. Also, it's forbidden to work in people, it's forbidden to confess faith, organized, so you can't go to church today, to mosque, wherever. Also, we see that there are no public debates at all, that all the media smokes in the same horn, that there is really nothing, there is no dissonant tones, all the media is smoking, picturesquely speaking in the same flute. And that's why I was the only representative in HS who voted against the de facto state of emergency that gave Minister Beros actually Pharaoh's powers where he can do anything. He, if he says tomorrow, can't go to a funeral or don't drive any more public transportation or you can't go from town to town, you have to close this or that, he now has all these possible powers in his hands. What we're getting today is no surprise, at least not for me because I knew it was what was coming. In fact, Edward Snowden has also warned that the government is implementing a massive listening program of citizens and that there is actually a technology developing to monitor movement, to collect information about all of us, etc., that it is about spying without a court order and that is exactly what is happening today. So the government says, we will monitor all Croatian residents by means of a signal from our phones and by that we will know where they are. They argue that this measure is conceived because of people who are in isolation, or who should be in isolation, but the law does not say that, without a court order, citizens who have a measure of self-insulation or quarantine, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Here it is said that all citizens can be monitored absolutely. Personally, the government cannot convince me to support this proposal, on the contrary, I despise it, as well as any other suggestions they made, which went in that direction. Because these proposals don't deal at all with the cause of the problem we have. Tracking people through cell phones is a measure aimed at actually establishing a society of total control, establishing a society where there's no privacy anymore, establishing a society where you're guilty until you prove you're not guilty and in fact this presummation of innocence falls into the water. What's the solution to this crisis is that the state finally starts dialogue with citizens, that Minister Beros agrees to dialogue, talk, and not to take measures that cause panic, because if he says one day without any prior debate, from tomorrow this, from today on, from today on out, people are kept in a state of fear and lasting panic, and that's why these measures and media reports have also led to these panic attacks on shops where people have been breaking in line to take toilet paper or to freeze meat or whatever. Also, I have to say that, what the government was supposed to do, and she missed out on it is that all these measures they were taking, epidemiologically, didn't follow the economics. which would be satisfactory and the government's economic policy will take us [[Finish your thought. Thank you.]] To ruin. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Pernar.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195137	We continue the debate, the next fellow is Franco Vidovic. It's not used, we can keep going, I mean... I'm on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Five minutes. So it's agreed at the club meeting in the morning, the duration of the stand 5 minutes, the name of the representative 10, the individual debate 5 minutes, the whole day goes on like that, colleague Pernar. Here's a colleague of Vidovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195138	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, with everything we've heard here this morning, the first thing I have to say for the public, the SDP all the measures it's supported so far, it hasn't supported them for these and those reasons. He supported them in the first place because he cares about the interests of citizens, but we also care about the interests of the entire state system because it is necessary at this point. So, my colleague Peja Grbin, about seven days ago, claimed that an article should be activated. 17. The Constitution. At that time and just before that, SDP required also, more rigorous measures, we also required more tests, now we see, unfortunately, some results on Murter, in Osijek... As far as this law is concerned, so this law is partly dangerous, it's a dangerous bill because it goes into something that laws shouldn't really enter in this way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's allowed and it's laughing, but it's in accordance with the Constitution. Which means that the law should also be passed with a two-thirds majority and that is not said by Franco Vidovic, the constitutional experts also tell you, and besides that this law should be strictly selectively applied and in this sense the SDP amendment has gone. So, first of all, to limit these measures to people who are indeed in isolation if we have to apply it, to limit the time period of that law, as well as the time period of application of those measures, to be precise. We also wanted to limit and decide and determine how to deal with the data collected by these procedures, or to destroy these data. We are also asking in the amendments that the person to whom this measure is applied be informed either in a written message or in another appropriate way. What are we looking for this for? Because they're our citizens. These are the people who have not done any work, and even less, who are guilty of their own guilt, who have not been ill with their own guilt or are suspected of being ill. It is therefore quite logical that we asked that these people be warned that measures would also be applied to them. Finally, we also asked for control of this measure through the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I think it's very, very clear, even after the presentation of my colleagues from HDZ that it's very clear why we've been looking for it because our HDZ colleagues have been talking on many occasions about nobody listening, that they won't do this, that they won't, but I don't see what the problem would be to do if we're already making such an amendment to the law that we're doing it. to really be effective, to be efficient and to be focused precisely on those to whom, unfortunately, at this moment, it must be directed. [[Intruder: Minute]] Of course there's always a problem and nobody can convince me that it's not a problem, which is if a person leaves his cell phone and goes outside. So, that law seven days ago, I understand and the situation in which the bill was passed, we here have a responsibility to the entire people, the government also, the President of the Republic, we are under pressure, we are all under press and this law is this, that is, this bill has been cast out as it has been expelled. I think it would be good for the ruling to hear the opposition this time. and to come to a common position or to accept [[Intruder: Thank you]] The amendments we've submitted to you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195139	Please remain here, we have two replicas, please, your colleague Plazonic is the first. So, behind him, a colleague of the Temple.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195140	Comrade Vidovic, you said this law is dangerous because it violates some fundamental rights of our citizens. We might as well agree on that. But tell me, are those people who break isolation and sow viruses everywhere, thus jeopardizing the health and lives of our fellow citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195141	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195142	So, I didn't invent that this law is dangerous because it violates human rights, but that's what it says, and whoever wrote the Constitution, and I didn't, paid special attention to human rights, and that's why we're just looking for what we're looking for. As for the people who are infected, they violate isolation, I agree with you, that they are dangerous, but I think that the rule of law and we as a society have enough measures at our disposal including the police, so that we can solve this situation. So what we're proposing is that we don't go to control, okay, if the ruling thinks, and we need to control, we're going, the two-thirds majority accept the amendment and we're going to go to control. But as suggested now, this doesn't make any sense, it's not effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195143	Thank you. Col. Hrelj, Rep. No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195144	Dear fellow Vidovic, look, these people who are in isolation have been following each other without this law and the claim that the competent services may be doing better today, but at some point at the beginning they were not doing well enough, and they are being followed otherwise to know how many people have violated a measure of isolation or that information from their sleeves. I don't think so. Let's not revolutionize our citizens' debates like this. They're revolutionized enough because we have 550 municipalities and cities and where they can't move, they feel closed even though it's also not normal to ban movement within their municipality or their city. It's just, you don't know, we in Pula can't come to, to, to Sand Bay, and that's the part that's leaning on the city because it's the Medulin municipality. Well, my people, let's not be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195145	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195146	Comrade Hrelja, I absolutely agree with you. So that's exactly what I'm talking about, and that's the point, it's a narrow area of human rights that's particularly protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I'm saying again, the Constitution didn't write me, it was written by some other people, it's ours to stick to the Constitution and the law. That is why, in the end, the SDP asked for the application of the Article. 17th because we want this whole process to be free of chaos. It's that we act in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. These are already foreseen in our laws, and there is something that needs to be filled out. In this way, the state, neither the extraordinary nor the regular nor the kind that the Government is presenting to us now, does not lead us anywhere, and I hope that they will really change direction and decide to activate the article. 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195147	Thank you. Before my colleague Bulja, I'd like a little intervention. Thank you, we're done with the replicas, thank you very much. Next up is my colleague Bulj, and then we still have a colleague named Bauk and a colleague of Maras on this agenda. Here you go, buddy Bull. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195148	Here's what to say when we talk about human rights and freedoms and when we talk about the crisis in this case about the coronary virus that threatens the health of our people, and we really have people who are being irresponsible, so we need to send messages on this occasion that everyone who is in self-insulation and isolation to adhere to these measures, however, the irresponsibility of people leads to the situation as it brings it, that an epidemic can be spread, and that we can have catastrophic effects on human health, we can finally see that there can also be fatal consequences. These two conflicts need to be distinguished. The state may have instruments, however, human rights and freedoms to hand over to someone, hand it over to Minister Bozinovic in his hands and be over us part, like, I don't know, an invisible eye or like Big Brother in an unlimited spectrum of some kind, undefined spectrum of powers, seizing and reducing rights and freedoms. Whenever there's a crisis, that's all. when certain restrictions have already been made and which is the National Civil Protection Headquarters and are now making certain decisions, which the Assembly has recently assigned to him at the session, in order to address the crisis with the coronaryvirus. The opposition, here, the Mosta Club has accepted all the proposals made by the government, 63 measures. However, we were restrained in this part of the handover of so many powers because it was not known how long it lasted, this civilian headquarters, there was no limit. But handing it over to one man, I don't know what a blow to democracy is. I mean, I know, and for freedom, for freedom and human rights has been fighting for centuries. And now, in this crisis, we mustn't create such a panic in such a way that we have Big Brother, that we have a man who will watch this conflict, so he said that this conflict means those people who are irresponsiblely acting and this law where they want to apply certain measures, i.e. Taking away rights and freedom by tracking a cell phone, which I think is absolutely insane. Well, first of all, it's technically insane. You can get a cell phone today and you have another number, and leave that cell phone number anywhere you want. On many occasions, I said the same thing today to other colleagues. Secondly, taking away the freedoms in the long run without any restrictions and the way it will be implemented rather than through regulations that will be obtained by the police and Minister Bozinović, who has experience, he was the last, last, I think the head of the General Defence of Zagreb at the time the weapons were handed over to the former military, so he has experience in any way to control it, so I think we can't give it to anyone, whether it's Minister Bozinovic or anyone. We supported everything regarding the civilian headquarters, as far as the 63 measures taken by the government are concerned. The opposition even gave amendments to help our economy because you, the virus will pass, the virus isn't just, the government hasn't accepted the economic amendment. We were constructive again, we supported. But you here seem to want to get under the grain in this panic, at this point justified by some fear, and we mustn't call so much panic. You want to study something that abolishes human rights and freedoms, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. You have no right to do that. You have no right to a colleague of Plazonic, you do not, regardless, see that you are people in these words, I speak in a democratic language and this is not funny Freedoms and human rights are the basis of everything. [[Intruder: Minute.]] It's not that simple, here's what I said in Sinj. The man who was in the headquarters, the civil headquarters of the city of Sinja is infected and now they're all off and it's not easy to talk, I mean they're all in isolation, and there's supposed to be a solution, a community, a call, a call, that, work, all the fighting to throw under their feet, forget about the diversity, I call the same thing. Of course my Signans will pray and guard that Lady Sinjska. But whether our mothers prayed for years and centuries to the miraculous Lady of Sinai. But to give someone the right, Minister Bozinovic, to take away freedoms and powers, and to control people who are in isolation. So don't do this to us after 30 years of an independent Republic, and that act is done in this hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195149	Thank you. Thank you. Stay here, please, we have two replicas. He's a colleague of the Iceman's first. After him, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195150	Dear fellow Bull, do you know why I think these amendments to the law are not so well-intentioned? They come from one ministry which, three months ago, was presented here, 3.4 months ago, so on. The Fans Act, we see what fans are doing in this crisis as regards the earthquake and these crowns of this virus, I wonder if in the second reading such a law will also come to the agenda such a repressive law and what's interesting is that Minister Bozinović when he talks about help, and he can't get past the words of fans in his mouth, but he's talking about young people. And the question arises when this virus crisis ends, will this law be selectively applied to some social groups that are not close to the authorities, which are fans?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195151	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195152	Here is the opportunity to thank the cheerleading groups of my Torcida, BBB, Armada of all cheerleading groups to my blue Maligans who help selflessly volunteer in the Red Cross because I am a volunteer at the Red Cross and I know how much they contribute and I know that this law is actually impossible, but it will simply end freedoms for these people. And we see what the Fans Act was like, so after the virus, we can use this tracking this way. So they want us at this point when we can't have differences, when we're going to be together to subdue the coward's egg at this point. The coward's eggs you throw out of this nest is not the time for cowardly eggs and to take away human rights and freedoms that are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and here you must not cross that line against, all taken against those who avoid isolation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195153	Thank you. Next up, colleague Pernar is the last replica of your presentation of colleague Bulj. Here's your colleague, Penar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195154	Dear Representative Bulj, you said you did not expect that after 30 years of our country's independence, such measures would be taken against the citizens. So I have to tell you that Croatia is not an independent country, you can see that our central bank is a currency exchanger, which the CNB does not play the role of the central bank that it should do or does not create money and, accordingly, the state cannot use the CNB's funds to break up the economic crisis resulting from the missed policy, including the one with the coronary virus. However, what is crucial is that when you go to the bank you open an account you have to give consent that the government gives your data to American agencies etc. So this was all pre-planned and all these measures are not really a surprise for those people who have been following what's been going on in recent years, not only in Croatia but also beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195155	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195156	So I would agree that Croatia does not protect enough its sovereignty as you said monetary sovereignty so we have not protected our agricultural land, and now we will see which problem we have with food imports, now it will reflect. We will see why they did not want and wanted to declare an exclusive economic belt that we also have sovereignty over our sea, now we will see the results of this crisis. But Mr. Pernar, Croatian defenders have given great pain to the freedom of the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s, and we must oppose the withdrawal of human rights and freedom and defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, which in this crisis will prove to be threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195157	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Just one small intervention, wait for colleague Bauk for 26 seconds. Thank you very much for the intervention. A fellow Arsen Bauk individual debate. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195158	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. The SDP Club has given an amendment to this law and if that amendment is accepted we will support it, if it does not, very simply or if some text is agreed that will succeed in doing three things in this law. First, time-limit it, secondly, to introduce parliamentary control and thirdly, limit it to the purpose of this law, which is to persons who are in self-insulation. Under these conditions, this law is acceptable to us, and I think that under these conditions you would meet all the limits that apply to it. 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia gives, as regards the limitations of certain rights and freedoms. Secondly, I think it's good, although some colleagues here expressed the reservation that last Wednesday we passed the Civil Protection Act and allowed the Civil Protection Staff to react when it considers it necessary with the measures it deems necessary. And I call on all citizens to implement and respect these measures, but also if they feel that they are bad at a democratic debate, they criticise them and then the authorities and repair them. Therefore, those who think they should react immediately gave them the opportunity, but we did not take the right to criticise in a democratic debate the measures taken by the state bodies because if there was no possibility of criticism, free speech, right thoughts and conscience would not be democracy. In this sense, I approach very carefully what is called a restriction on certain fundamental human rights, and thus the right to free movement and in this decision to ban the place of residence, for example, I see certain gaps that need to be corrected for example. limit not to the place of residence but to an area that generally corresponds to the former municipalities, and not to the existing municipalities because they are formed as a whole in which citizens can satisfy all rights and then the municipality without a gas station, without a pharmacy or without a food trade, although I don't think there are, we simply put their citizens in dependence on local civil protection headquarters that for the most basic needs they should be authorised and then those who should be concerned about the health care of certification. So unnecessarily in small areas, we bureaucratized the system while, for example, Zagreb of 800,000 people, as mentioned by someone, can move normally. Secondly, the government made a decision that concerned the same restrictions on freedom of movement for the islands, but in my opinion it was too late because after we received "half Slovenije", "half Zagreb" then it bothered us "to have a barba from Split", it was not very logical. Therefore, regardless of all these failures and what needs to be criticised and no one in this country is protected from criticism as much as the responsible and difficult work is doing, the measures that have been taken should be respected, but also do not bring people who want to follow the rules, who want to be exemplary citizens in the situation that suddenly show themselves from a model citizen as offenders because some measures are either illogical or non-lifeless or simply not well written. When a state body that citizens must have according to the default of a situation of high trust makes a decision that is not enforceable, it also causes reduced trust in citizens and they wonder if they know what they are doing. Why didn't they think about it before? Therefore, in addition to all these reserves on the abolition or restriction of certain human rights, I will repeat once more, parliamentary supervision, time limit, limitation to a logically defined group of citizens, these are the conditions under which these measures could be adopted. What's now in government law isn't. Can you fix that? You got it. And I hope, therefore, that in this sense, we will, the Government will show understanding and that its intentions, which the proposing representative has made in the opening statement, will then be more precisely written in the final text of the law, or in some amendment that the Government may accept in a changed form, and we will agree on that. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195159	We have two replicas. He is his first colleague, Maras, and after him, his colleague Pusic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195160	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you mentioned a situation that is really illogical since you come from the island of Brač where there are 7 municipalities and 1 city, where people have restrictions on movement, perhaps it is an opportunity to finally consider in the Republic of Croatia a more logical association on units of local self-government because we now see how many restrictions there are in certain municipalities or how many illogicalities there are in our regional and local, local units. On the other hand, I wonder if this problem on the islands has been solved, as it has been solved, and whether it is considering a national headquarters on your information on how to solve it. Otherwise, it would be good for the gentleman who runs the national headquarters to come here one day and talk to representatives of the Croatian Parliament to get information from the field that directly citizens can give through us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195161	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195162	Comrade Maras, I think in this situation, in this situation, the limited democratic capacity of the state is the role of parliamentary representatives just like you said, so to convey what citizens are reporting to us as a problem. As for what you asked on the islands, it's settled differently, it's not solved systematically. So, some local civil protection headquarters, either on their own or on their own initiative, have made a decision to treat the island as one whole and do not ask for confirmation, and it will all be great until the first one is infected. Then they'll wonder why you've acted past the headquarters's decision. Therefore, the headquarters better make such a decision that people who try to act logically are not called in 3 days or otherwise sanctioned. Therefore, it would be good to listen, hear, and obey by the headquarters of the initiative from the field and to make decisions. And if we go into even more stringent measures, then it's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195163	Thank you. Comrade Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195164	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you're probably a lapus, by mistake, saying that these measures and all the remarks you're dealing with or would refer to people who are self-insulating and that's what a few colleagues said during the debate. I think it's important for the public to point out no matter what I'm against this law, that it still wouldn't go that far. So in order to apply these measures to people who are in self-insulation but only to people who are in isolation, if so, who are in isolation, and not who themselves have determined that they will be in isolation because if they were, then really no one goes into self-insulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195165	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195166	You well interpreted what I said, even though I thought the expression, self-insulation just means those who got the solution, so if that's isolation then we're going to do that, then I'm going to interpret it that way. So those of our fellow citizens who, because of the danger of being in close contact with the person who has been proven to have a positive test on the coronary virus should not leave the house, etc., would therefore be referred to them, those who have received the solution and everything further the protocol provides in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195167	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, there is no need for another colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go. My colleague Bauk kept his distance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195168	Thank you very much. My fellow Members and fellow citizens, I think it is very important that we simply continue to function in the Croatian Parliament and carry on the messages and thinking of Croatian citizens and what is proposed here as certain solutions, and so does this law. We see that today has caused a lot of debate, that ultimately the ruling party has offered to adhere to the Republic Constitution and that we are likely to go towards the fact that this law must be passed by 2/3 of the majority. With what I would like and what I think a lot of fellow MPs expect, and in some ways Croatian citizens expect us to talk here specifically and with people who are responsible for managing this crisis. Not only are fellow state secretaries who are the first associates of the Ministry of Interior, because I think that the Croatian Parliament deserves to transfer certain things that citizens think, on the other hand, that the minister when such an important law is passed in the Croatian Parliament and is personally here. I respect and I am pleased that the Croatian public is informed, and we see that we have a daily 2 press conferences, but this session is being broadcast publicly and here the minister can provide a lot of useful information and in some way communicate this crisis and help and representatives in the Croatian Parliament to be involved in this. Since we get daily 100s and queries and messages here during just the discussion of my colleague, Bauk, I've been answering several SMSs because people really deserve to be helped at this point, that information, especially when we expect them to stay home to protect themselves and their families and on this side of the public functioning of the state, I think is of paramount importance. As far as the law itself is concerned, I join the debates of colleagues before me, especially this amendment given by the SDP's Representatives' Club, in countries such as the Republic of Croatia must be strictly regulated. As an opposition, we have given full support that, in some way, with this crisis, the government is being caught up right now, we have given support to the laws last week, but we simply expect this cooperation, we expect that we all participate together in solving this crisis and that in such proposals, such laws, we consult before, we can't bienko pass laws that are not asked, that we don't care at all about the freedoms of Croatian citizens, that it is thought that, in this way, we will regulate certain things without any excess questions. I think that the state must function and must continue to take care of the freedoms of citizens and must continue to count on us to act as a modern democratic society, regardless of the crises that have hit us. I would personally be much happier if the government had decided and quickly proposed some other laws, especially as regards the economy sector because after that initial proposal that should have given them out to the government for 7 days to consider how to help the Croatian economy, we see that these laws do not exist, we see that people simply do not know what will happen tomorrow, we do not know how they can expect the state to help them, we see that they have received prolongate instead of getting write-off or suspending, for example, or some other donations that they should have, because if people are not given work, if the state is not so structured that they can function, so you can't expect the economy entrepreneurs and crafts to continue to pay all contributions or agree to prolongat what they've been paying for so far. [[Intruder: Minute]] So, I expect from the Croatian government and I use this opportunity here on purpose to say publicly that these laws come as soon as possible in the procedure, to free entrepreneurs and craftsmen, to realize that at this point the state is the foundation. So when you can't work, when you can't pay your employee, it's the state that has to put the government gentlemen in charge and give support to employees at least 75% of the salary, and that lasts 6 months or more. At the end of the years, we will all return together as a society of these debts, but at this point it is important that everything does not stop, that people have security, that they know that in two months they will have what to go to the store and buy food for their family, that is what the Republic of Croatia has to tell its citizens at this moment, that is what the Croatian government must tell its citizens, that is what the opposition is telling the citizens and we must all stand behind it together and in some way protect our citizens. and our economy [[Intruder: Thank you...]] And that's why I'm asking you to take these messages very seriously. [[Intruder: On your exposure]] And finally find [[Intruder: Thank you...]] a common consensus in solving these problems. [[Invader:...kolega Maras]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195169	Comrade Maras, please remain here. You have one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195170	Dear Representative Maras, the state should have imposed measures instead of mass espionage on its citizens to protect them. First of all, we have a problem with construction workers working in the interior of the Republic of Croatia because it is an enormous winter, people freeze on construction sites, and they have this epidemic of coronaryvirus, and they don't have adequate working conditions, they don't have protective masks and whatever. And so here's why I suggest you call together the government to stop actually, at least while this winter is crouching, that, to stop working on construction sites for the sake of these people's health, because if they weaken their immunity, they will be more susceptible to respiratory diseases, and the corona is just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195171	Thank you. Here's your answer, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195172	I think there's a lot of things to think about right now, one of those things is how life's gonna go next month. So we have to think about how to help people not stop everything in the Republic, to function in a reduced range, to make people work from home as much as they can, to protect themselves, to deal with these profits that charge masks 20-30 times as much as they should. Why does the Ministry of Health or the competent agencies and institutions not immediately react and take away the right to sell and where is the inspectorate? So we're in the basement of the Croatian Inspectorate. When someone hears that they've charged a mask of 15 kn or dissipation that they've charged 50-60 kn, which is why the inspector doesn't go out on the ground immediately, and that's why they don't send a very clear message "you won't do it", we don't let as a state take advantage of the accident that's hit us all together. That's what I expect from the state, and I hope that's how it's gonna be. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195173	Thank you, buddy. And very briefly on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195174	Thank you, Vice President. I'm just going to briefly point out once again that it has initiated the government to go into the making of this law. The sole objective of the law is to protect human lives. The basic human right is the right to live. Our goal is to do so. We want to prevent the spread of the infection. The only measure of disabling is the human contact we've known so far. This all started out after we noticed from the information we gave in the pharmacy about infected persons, how many infected people showed up there, and this is to keep track of the infected persons in the first row. Otherwise, all teleoperators are under this law, and otherwise required to comply with the rules on the protection of personal data. And with this, these rights don't change. We will seriously consider all amendments and determine ourselves against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195175	Please stay. We have three replicas. He is his first colleague, Maras, followed by his colleague, Sladolev and his colleague, Bauk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195176	Thank you very much. I believe you've been mistaken, not knowingly saying that the infected persons were going around, but the individuals who had a measure of self-insulation meant that, or isolation, I'm sorry. So, on this side, you have to be careful when you use those terms here, and the second thing I wanted to ask you, I see that Mr. Bozinović is twice a day talking to the media, I think it would be normal when this law proposes that he proposes it here and explain to the Croatian public why he proposes it. So if he is already so exposed, exposed and leading the crisis then he must come to the Croatian Parliament when the topic of the agenda is this important, he must consult with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament to let people tell him what they think, because here we all want to help solve the crisis as soon as possible and be constructive. There are no MPs here, I'm sure, who want things to get complicated. So I invite you both Minister Bozinović and the public to communicate with the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195177	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195178	Only a small correction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195179	Thank you. Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195180	Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you the same thing, and a little more PR-communicate with people who are in isolation that there's no need to go outside. I'm in a group of people who immediately signed up to help the elderly and people who can't get to the drugs, so between Bed Blue Boys, 960 in the City of Zagreb we're covering, all the neighborhoods we've stuck to at all the entrances of our phone numbers, we're working with civil protection, and many people still don't know that we're going to deliver food and medicine, that we have protective masks, that we're in collaboration with the Red Cross and with civil protection, so my appeal is to go to you with that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195182	We certainly accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195183	Thank you. We don't have any more replicas, my colleague Bauk has given up. So I conclude the debate in 14 and 59 minutes on the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195184	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 881. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The club of HDZ representatives has proposed to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions that read. First, on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications with the final proposal for a Law on P.Z. the number 881 was held in the first reading. Secondly, all objections and proposals and opinions from the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. Representative of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, State Secretary Josip Bilaver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195185	... and representatives of the Government accepts the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications is sent to a second reading. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195186	Since the proposer's representative accepted the proposal for a conclusion of the HDZ Club, we will not then declare either the amendments that have been tabled, but we will now vote on the final draft of the law or no longer on the final one, but on the proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, whose proposal was proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded and I am voting on the proposal of the HDZ Club's conclusion. First, on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, P.Z. the number 881 was held in the first reading. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions from the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Who is against such a proposal? Who's restrained? And who's the bottom line on this? Please score. Therefore, for such a proposal, the conclusion is therefore to go, that the debate was held only in the first reading and that all comments, proposals and opinions from the debate would be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law, for 89, against 41. So I find that the majority of the conclusion is that it was proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195187	We'll continue with the next item on the agenda. The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No 852 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. With us is the proposing representative, State Secretary Juro Martinovic, so he will give an introductory explanation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs, the government has referred the Penal Code to the parliamentary procedure. He has passed all the usual procedures provided for by Croatian laws and has passed the parliamentary committees that are relevant to this type of law. With this legal document, we're changing the law the same way, so we want to make up for it, we propose to a assembly that's last time, in fact, that was passed in '99. the year, and after that it has been changed several times, and there has been a need for nomotechnical reasons to bring in a new legal document, but also because of the fact that a series of laws with which this law is in direct contact have changed, so we would need to make one harmonisation of this law with all other laws. In short for your information, therefore, the Prison Penal Code regulates one specific matter that regulates the prison system in Croatia that has 25 criminal bodies, prisons, penitentiary centres, educational centres, diagnostic centres and 2 criminal bodies in which minors are, according to which educational measures are applied. Within the framework of the regulation of this law is the Administration for the Prison System and Prosecution, which is part of the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, it falls within one of the overall criminal legal frameworks and is governed by this law, and this law regulates the relationship of the prison system administration, but a complete prison system, so the prison and the administrator to the courts, according to the State's attorney's office and according to the probation service. So, what are the key things that I, on behalf of the Government, want to highlight for you as parliamentary representatives who ultimately decide that you accept or do not accept this law. So, in addition to what I said at the principle level, what is being regulated by this law, we believe that this legal proposal is that we improve things in a way that speeds up the procedures for sending people to prison who are legally convicted by the competent courts. So far, it's been somewhat less regulated. So after power and enforcement, we shortened the deadlines in which the call must be sent and the people sent to support the prison sentence. We believe that in this document we have arranged the health system in the prison system since it has now been completely independent and without any joints to the health system of the Republic of Croatia, we have now improved it. Before this law, when the Health Protection Act was passed, then there we created assumptions about this intervention on better health certification in the prison system, and so we suggest that in one minimum way the status of judicial officers be improved, that their position in the area of severance is brought to an approximate position of police officers and Croatian soldiers. I think it's justifiable that these people are doing a hard and responsible job in the prison system. So, what we were still trying to do with quality and better, which is to use modern technologies in the prison system, and here we suggested that in addition to the video link that can be held and some debates for prisoners, some hearings, there we improved the ability to communicate prisoners with families, primarily children, but also other family members, and that at this point is very useful when we are for your knowledge, and I think you need to know that we have done a rather prominent reduction of prisoner communication with the world because of the Coronus virus. We stopped visiting the prison system more than 15 days ago except for those necessary to protect the human rights of prisoners in court proceedings and other particularly extraordinary situations, which is death, these are still some things that prison managers will consider if such things happen. I can still inform you that the prison system has not yet had an incident with the coronary virus, that we can thank the series of measures we have taken and that we are taking on a daily basis, and we are doing everything we can to relieve the prison system of new arrivals and to relieve it of communications with the outside world. You could almost say that prisoners currently in the prison system are less exposed than any of us are to the danger of being infected with the coronary virus. Our officers are basically the only ones who could bring it through those communications, but we've got a lot of equipment for both the officers and the prisoners to prevent it. And I repeat, the actions are now under way to reduce the number of prisoners in the prison system, at least what it means, but the lawyers will understand that, so the activities of the courts have been reduced, and there will also be cuts in minor penalties where there are assumptions that, of course, there is no threat to the safety of those who are at large. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195189	I thank the Secretary of State. We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195190	Thank you very much. Mr. Martinovic, that's exactly what I wanted to ask you, is there a possibility that in the prison system the capacity is reduced, we know that it's not an ideal situation in the brakes, that God did not give an epidemic in some prison there could really be a lot of exposure, so I welcome this measure if it goes in that direction to ease the penalties you see which have the assumption that they are released in some way more or sooner. And the other thing that I'm interested in, no matter what you just said about people being pretty safe in prisons because they've cut off contact with the outside world, I don't think it's good at the maintenance of a sentence sometimes. So people have to be able to see their families, contact them, they can certainly be adequately hygienically prepared and shut down in a way that people exercise their right to have contact with their families. I think it's one of the most important parts of the entire prison system and in some way rehabilitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195191	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195192	Your Honor, MPs and MPs. So I'm glad that we're thinking about this system in a very similar way. We are indeed, therefore, the prison system has in the last year been significantly filled because of this migrant route, but also because of some legal changes, and also because of a tightening of the illegal regulation. In the last 10 days when we took these measures and gave suggestions to the courts, we have already reduced one 150 people in the prison system. But of course we continue to work and we believe that in communication with the courts, the state's attorneys, the trial, but also one more intensive work on interruptions and parole where there are legal assumptions, of course, all with the aim of not jeopardising anyone outside. As for these visits we were parallel when we stopped the visits we introduced what you're talking about, but we introduced the possibility of longer phone calls and more contacts through video links and phone contacts. We haven't had any negative reactions from the system yet, do people realize that at this point, it's a strategic protection of the health of the nation, but also theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195193	Thank you, Secretary of State, please hold on to your time. Second up, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195194	Secretary of State, it is commendable that you have limited your visits and that you have prevented the contact of prisoners with the outside world, because at this moment it protects them from the crown of the virus. But what I'd like to hear from you and see if you've made another measure because at this point, the transfer of the crown virus to the prison system can only be done by those guards, so the judicial officers who are together with the prisoners can't avoid that contact with them. What is the danger of judicial officers being kicked out of the machine because of the Coronation of the Virus and having to be at home or self-insulation or being infected, that I'm interested in whether the judicial system started with a rotation of 14-14, which means that part of the judicial officers are working, and the other half is at home, and in such a way we preserve the operation of that system?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195195	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195196	Thank you very much. So, Your Honor, if the Justice Department is doing anything all the time right now, and that's exactly the prison system and the probation and all the top people, but also all the prison managers. In that very sense, everything was done, of course we organized the shifts, of course we organized the shifts, and of course we organized all the protective techniques that we can have so that it wouldn't happen. So we go one step further, we're going to release some capacity in fear that if the coronaryvirus happens, that the health system can't accept people from prison, we're creating capacities that we're going to be able to be some kind of social transport, so within the system we're going to be able to isolate a certain number of people in a quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195197	Thank you. Let's go to the hearing now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, a respected colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195198	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me first of all one observation concerning this very debate today and this very law itself. Even though the issue of regulating the prison system is important, I believe that this was not the time and I believe that there was no need to discuss this law today, we should have discussed concrete measures that would make it easier for Croatian citizens, Croatian workers and Croatian employers to deal with this crisis. But what is, there is, we're discussing this law and then we need to look back at what's in this proposal. The SDP advocates' club gave principle support to this law, we gave it to the board meetings, we'll give it when it's voted, but before the final decision is made in the second reading, we have certain objections and we want them to be seriously considered. In order to explain to those who follow us, this law regulates two substances. These substances are close, but in many other situations, they are governed by special regulations. On the one hand, we have a matter concerning the execution of a prison sentence, but at the same time we have arranged official relations, persons who work in the prison system, such as, for example, judicial officers, and there is a problem. As for what you have proposed for the prison system, there are no major objections and there are no things that are too far deviating from the situation and the practice so far, but this is also the problem because this law will certainly not bring about any shifts in order to avoid the situations we have, for example in the case of Clem or in the case of Horvatinčić, that certain persons, in my court and in the court of many who follow the situation, are a little overruled by serving the prison sentence. But well, it's hard to get home by law if we have doctors who are willing to issue these kind of certificates. However, when we talk about official relations, there is a particular problem. I won't list all the problems, they're contained in the report, the extensive report that the Justice Committee gave on this bill, they're all numbered, I believe the minister, that the ministry will take care of them, but on one example I'll show what kind of problems it is. It's specifically about the different treatment of the judicial police compared to the regular police, and the reasoning of the law makes it visible, but here's just an example. The severances are re-arranged by this law in a way that is different to the judicial police, than the one for ordinary, regular, blue, whatever we want to call it, the police, and I don't think that's right. On the one hand, we have a police officer who's worried about finding out the perpetrators of the crime, that these perpetrators are brought to justice, and then when they're brought to justice, they're, like, in custody or after being convicted in prison, then who's taking care of them? Justice police. So they do a similar job, a job that applies to the same person, and they're not treated the same way. We at the SDP Club feel that this should be fixed, that this should be resolved until the second reading, and we use the opportunity to appeal to both the ministry and the government, that before the law is directed to another reading, to meet with a representative union representing people working in the prison system and to go through with it all the proposed measures, through all the proposed solutions and then, together with the union, to come to a law that, when this crisis passes, will be good and satisfactory and those working in the prison system, but also the Government, of course, related to its budgetary constraints. However, I will take this opportunity to talk about something else. At first glance, what I'm going to talk about, and maybe I'm boring because for days I've been talking about it, it's not about the prison system. But I hold that. For what? The deadlines, too inclusive at the moment, also apply to criminal proceedings. One of these deadlines is, for example, a limitation period in a criminal procedure that conditions when a person is terminated or unable to carry out proceedings against a person due to the expiry of time. Unfortunately, we have not yet found that the situation in the Croatian judiciary is not regular. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are courts that are closed because of the coronary virus, such as the Pula court. He can't be accessed. On the other hand, we have courts, such as the courts in Zagreb, which seem to me to be the County and Commercial Court in Zagreb, which are also closed and cannot be accessed because of the damaged statics of the building. You can't get to the file, you can't see the objects running, you can't take the actions. And deadlines for both state bodies and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are running. We from the SDP have called several times, and now I am taking the opportunity that here is the representative of the Ministry of Justice that as soon as possible, this problem is resolved in front of the Croatian courts. The proposal on how to get rid of it has been submitted by the European Court of Human Rights. Last Monday, the European Court of Human Rights decided to suspend deadlines for a month. So, a month won't run out of deadlines in front of that court and who in this month's time would lose his right, because it will not continue until the current situation is over. The European Court of Human Rights thus came out to meet citizens from all over Europe, and we expect them to do something similar to that of our courts. Since it is questionable whether there are existing laws, first of all I am referring to the Law on Courts and then to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court because the problem is also deadlines in front of the Constitutional Court, whether there are grounds to do something like this. They probably don't exist. But as we made a whole series of regulations very quickly last week, I don't see any problem that the government would be ideal today, but it's hard to expect, of course, that the government will already refer such laws to the procedure tomorrow, and that if we don't end this, and then the beginning of the next one, or in the middle of the next, anytime, but the sooner we pass this regulation. With this situation being considered in the SDP Club and the conclusion that unfortunately Minister Bosnjakovic is not as undertaking, as proactive as many of his other colleagues are, we will send him a message. If he doesn't react, if he doesn't do what we're talking about right now or any other measure that could replace this, we're not the only ones here, whatever the minister does, and we're good, we'll accept, but if the minister doesn't continue to do anything like he's doing so far, we'll be forced to consider the initiation of his recall procedure regardless of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195199	We are going to a second debate, a respected colleague of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and new policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195200	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think that in a country where everyone today is terrified of their own health, where our capital is well shaken by one victim, our family's condolences, and for which we all feel very sorry for each other, this one at that time discusses this morning about listening to cell phones, tracking movements today, and continuing to talk about the prison system, and citizens feel trapped in their homes with virtual bars or within their own apartment or at the borders of their community or city, shows a remarkable talent of understanding the situation with a psychological aspect. Today, I think we should talk a lot more about the solidarity of citizens, predict all together how long this situation will last, what measures we will take and how we will get out of it because if we know us, and we know us, we have had the longest crisis in 2008. So if we haven't learned anything from it then it's very, very sad. That's what we should talk about. I do not at any time dispute that this law is necessary, that a lot of work has been done here, we have been following this area since the first parliamentary term when it was in the responsibility of the Labour Committee. So, I visited these penitentiary offices, at least some, saw the situation, and I know that it is being corrected by both the European directives and our laws and that standards are increasing and that this law is needed and, ultimately, it is part of the operational reform plan of the judiciary. I've left only doubt as to whether this is the right time to discuss it today, today, we're discussing it. After all, of course, he and his shortcomings, which I hope will be corrected by the second reading. Under the first drawback I believe this law has, there is no contribution to consultation with the interested public, no contribution to the law. I suppose at least the profession should tell its unions and judicial officers with full freedom in every possible democratic way to say whether this is good or not. We have the right as agents to know what people in the system think, not just a competent institution. So it's the first grudge that goes on the proposal of this law. I confirm what my colleague, the coat of arms, said that the part about the prison system is all over me, as far as I can understand it, solidly, solidly solved, and that one could, in any case, pass. I would not like to see the difference between the judicial and other police officers again, and it is not a good time to speak today, because it is good that Mr. Martinovic said it is about equating with the rights of other police officers, so the general police, because here in the law only stands in labour law regarding severance. Today we have citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are terrified of their existence, they don't know what will happen to jobs, and we're talking about severances here, I'm saying it's good that the Secretary of State explained whether those who just read the reasoning of the law could have known that? They couldn't have known. So if we do laws then let's explain them as much as possible to the details, maybe most of them won't read, but maybe there are those interested who are just looking for the truth in the details and we owe them all the details about each, every law. Well, I think we're people of good faith here, and we'll support every good proposal. This bill goes into two readings, so we have time to think about it anyway. I would say in any case in front of our club that in this first reading we will be abstentioned expecting that these things in terms of communication with an interested public with, the deal is with, with, with, with unions, I don't know, not in favor of the law, I can't tell whether it's done or not for counseling if it's not in the light of the law we've got. So, in this sense, we can consider until another reading, and I ask that it be used for all possible improvements and one part that would point out as particularly good, which is that the prison health system is very connected to the general health system of the Republic of Croatia. And Mr. Secretary of State, I think, but it will explain Mr. Miranda Mrsic in his presentation, but his question 14-14 was not shift work but something else. 14 days in the service, 14 days out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195201	Before my colleague Pusic was just your colleague, Hrelja, so we agreed to do so and put the laws we have in the procedure. We have some who are related to the crisis and some who are not related to the crisis. ... Okay, in one way that was underestimating to whoever put it on the agenda to show my psychological profile, etc., if you don't want to work, you don't have to. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm putting together the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then someone imaginary, I guess. So that everyone who feels that they should not participate in the debate should not participate, but we stick here not only to discuss the crisis but to show that we are acting as a representative and legislative body. Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195202	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Now you've taken away from me somehow I'm embarrassed to say that I'm glad this law came to the agenda, but with that I thought I'd start because I think it's good to do some things that are part of a normal life, that we're not just involved in this kind of psychosis where we're all of course to some extent given the circumstances we're in. But we must be able to function normally from that point of view, and especially from the point of view of the law that we previously discussed, I am pleased that this law is at least in its one part, and it consists of clearly demarcated two parts going in the opposite direction of the law that we discussed this morning. So, this law de facto liberalises the prison system, introduces clearer triage, introduces clearer criteria when people can possibly second-guess punishment, taking into account the obvious fact that our prisons are overrun. But to start from the beginning, so the law has two very clearly separated parts, one refers to the regulation of the prison regime and the position of the prisoners to serve the sentence, and the other to the position of prison guards, or judicial police, people who work in prisons. So harshly put, one is good, one is bad, so one part is good in the opinion of us in GLAS, and the other is bad. To start with a part that is good, I've already said something about it, it refers to it as a different approach to the entire prison system at all and the whole idea of that punishment that goes through the prison system, which is that the prison must, in the first place, be rehabilitated, so people are expected to be able or able to get back into society while they're being punished at the end of the service. And our opinion is that it's a good approach and it's the only de facto sustainable approach. There are, of course, many more steps to come to this fully because the issue of prison capacity is always a problem in overcrowded prisons such a programme cannot occur. However, here it is assumed that the introduction, or development, will be introduced, but the possibility of further education of people who are in prisons and the possibility of serving punishment in another way and psychological assistance, more precise triage as I said, so that part would be supported and that part is in some way a nod of normality and from that point of view I think it's good. The second part refers to the regulation of the situation, i.e. the definition of the position of judicial officers or prison officials. In my opinion, in many ways, their work is at least as difficult, and the job is at least as difficult if it isn't, but at least as hard as the job of regular cops. If you can imagine a job where every day you actually work with people who are alone and under stress and have sinned maybe some not so terrible, but some criminal acts that are pretty scary that you're around these people all the time who can't get out of there, they need help on the one hand, and on the other hand they need control, so if anything for the judicial officers and this is regulated they wouldn't support it. So there would probably be the best idea to be about the position of judicial officers or to pass a special law or simply to include them in the regulations applicable to the police, so for this regular police force and to have the same status as the regular police. And it would be a shame that some positive provisions, as far as the prison system is concerned, are not proposed here, fail, or are in some way contaminated by bad provisions or underdeveloped provisions relating to the judicial police, so the position of the GLAS Club is that if the Government, if by second reading you can correct the second part of the law to actually have in their hands something that is or of course singled out and proposed a special law, so that they have something in their hands that is of quality and can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195203	Thank you. We are now going to discuss the respected colleague Mrsic, the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195204	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all one remark to the president to take off his mask because this is how it stands and it has no purpose, neither is this one right, so here I am as a doctor saying that this one you take off, it has no purpose, it only makes sense if It's easier for a man if it is, but she has a purpose if you're caught cold, if you have symptoms then you're protecting others all the time, and I'm trying to repeat that to those people, I guess it's psychological people if you have a mask, so you're safer. [[Intruder: Psychological.]] Yes, thank you very much. [[Intruder: I'm psychological to get from some fences.]] And the Secretary of State, so my replica went with saying further in the prison system, there's been a redistribution, which means that part of the judicial officers are at home, and part of it works, and that's how we protect those who are at home to get infected, and then they can jump into a shithole of people who get coronal infection with the virus, and that's something that works in the health system, and I think we should be in the judicial system, because here it is if we fall out of our system a number of judicial cops are going to be a problem and I don't think we need it. I hope there won't be an infection inside the prison because then it'll be a big, big health problem, so hopefully here's what they're up against in the system and that's what they're counting on. The very law that is in the debate today is the good part that is related to the prison system, and that is where we rely on the democratic practice of EU countries, directives and everything else. What is missing in the law is that it is largely forgotten about those on whom the prison system rests, and these are judicial officers and other civil servants and tenants. In a law that should regulate their rights, the law is sufficient, the bill remains somewhere in some things unsettled and it is clear that judicial officers who, due to special working conditions, are recognised as a salary supplement as compensation for the threat of life and health during overtime, carry out their stress work as paid as if they work in the office and as ministries, it is without an allowance that they achieve during regular working hours. That's one problem that hasn't been solved by this law. On the other hand, in this law, the problem is that the anti-corruption note has not been implemented until the end because if a judicial officer who, with a coefficient of 0.95 and 10 years of employment and 30% of the allowance while the special working conditions have a salary of 4400 kuna per month, how can we expect him to flatly reject any immoral offer of a hard-working and financially independent criminal or neglect the threat to himself and his family? And that's something that should have been dragged through this law very clearly. These people have to be well paid because it's a dam for what I've been talking about. The law goes into second reading, and I hope that the law will solve at least three things that matter. One thing is that law enforcement officers are equal to cops who work with so-called citizens. That's not what the law does. One law that would solve these problems, both police officers and judicial officers, is the Law on Professional Pensions. Because with that law, we're also dealing with the problems of pensioning law enforcement officers who go one way under this law, and those who are in the police are going the other way, and they're doing the same job, the same weight of work, the same responsibility, and that's something that should have been solved. The second part that should be addressed is the issue of severance. The severances should be equal in both systems. This equalization of one system and another should be done through one law, and this one law is about the professional pension that I proposed in the assembly, but most of them did not accept it because that law regulates then pensions and severances and all those in the system were the judicial officers, whether those who work in the intelligence system or others who work on special jobs. The third thing that this law has not resolved is the issue of temporary reference to work in another penitentiary that the trade unions have been trying to resolve for years in agreement with the Justice Department, however, it has not been resolved yet, and here we see this dichotomy as resolved in this law for judicial police officers, and as settled in the Police Act. They're doing the same job and it's kind of my wish that in the second reading that part of each other is even because they're both doing the same job, and one and the other is referring to the field of work, so that's something that should be resolved. The law will be supported, but I hope that by the second reading, all these remarks we have said will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195205	We are now going to ClubP Representatives Bridge of Independent Lists esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195206	Thank you, Mr. President, so, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. Most thinks the best solution would be that this, that the adoption of this law should be deployed in two parts. One that would regulate only the execution of prison sentences, while another law would regulate the prison system and the working position of prison officials. However, we consider it to be specific jobs and specific jobs that need to be singled out from the scope of the Civil Service Act. If for some reason this is not acceptable, and I don't see any reason why, then at least we think that the Penal Code should be divided in such a way that in one part it regulates the execution of a prison sentence, in another part of the jurisdiction, in part of the work for the prison system and the staff's work system as a third part of the transitional and final provision. In the second reading, we will have amendments if he does not change to some articles. There are also good things in the law, we welcome the desire to increase the severance of officials when they leave for retirement, but we think that this really increase will not happen for lower officials but will be the most felt by officials, also, the proposed way of determining the amount of severance, taking into account the work experience carried out in the prison system, we consider it discriminatory, given that the special Law on the rights of employed military personnel, police officers and authorised officials is a condition for retirement, it is unnecessary to divide further into years of training, up to 10 years, up to 10-20 and more. The correct determination of retirement is whether it is to leave early, regular or disabled and according to these criteria and determine the amount of severance. The amount of severance should be the average salary of officials from the last 3 months increased by a certain amount, depending on the use and the above criteria. Also, it is proposed that tenants be official persons, so colleagues have already talked about it, a better quality and fairer solution is that there are no substitutes in the prison system at all, but that they are officials for the simple reason that the tenants work in the same conditions and do not have the same status. For example. Chef and assistant chef at the prison penitentiary, chef is a professional teacher, cook, clerk, while assistant chef is a substitute. They're both working in the same conditions, they're in direct contact with the prisoners, and in the same way our lives are kind of threatened, but their rights are different incomparable. Such matters need to be corrected and can be corrected by qualification of jobs and by the list of jobs and coefficients of complexity of transactions outside the Law on civil servants and, first of all, taking into account the specificities of work in the prison system. The same way the police are solved, it's about related services and the same dangerous and specific jobs as they are in the prison system. What we think is bad is that standards have been reached in the prison execution system, and as a reason we see one adjustment to the existing condition and lack of staff, especially the doctor, the health profession, so that in the course of implementing the tight measures, according to the applicable law, a medical examination of the prisoners is required once at 24 hours, and is now proposed twice a week. We welcome a good solution in the form of the introduction of new technologies into the prison system, video calls to family members, video surveillance, electronic surveillance, speeding up the process of referring to the maintenance of a powerful prison sentence, but these measures themselves are not reform. Even less, these measures will attract new people into the prison system or keep existing officials from leaving the system. The prison system needs genuine reorganisation, the right to reform, which will restore dignity, show them that they are doing difficult work and are therefore appreciated. The prison system does not require the transfer of prisoners from one institution to another, in order to address the problem of red tape, but it is necessary to build a new prison that will be modern, meaningful, e.g. in Sisak because prison there is inappropriate for both officials and prisoners. As we have been able to see in Zagreb these days, during the earthquake, in what state our health institutions are in, this is also the situation with prisons and penitentiary facilities, except for a few prisons, Zagreb, Split and Dubrovnik and a new part of the Penalty in Glina. All the other prisons, the penitentiary, were made at the time of Austria-Hungarian. It is necessary to think in that direction and try to realize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195207	Thank you. Now it should be my colleague Radin's turn, he's not here, so he loses his word and it's the last club of MPs, it's HDZ, dear colleague Ante Plazonic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195208	Thank you, Mr. President. It's hard to please the MPs at HS. Some of them are satisfied that this law today is at debate, some of them are not, but I think it's a real measure and it's a good time, especially because we can compare this law with what we discussed this morning, and that's the Law on Electronic Communications. In fact, we have been listening here all morning to attacks about how this law wants to derivate, reduce the rights of Croatian citizens, take constitutional freedoms, and here within this law we see that the Ministry of Justice and the Croatian Government is doing everything to improve the status and rights of people in the Croatian prison system. So here are two important things. The takeover within the law we talked about this morning, about people who have the task of protecting the health and lives of our fellow citizens, and here the system protects our fellow citizens who have found themselves in the Croatian prison system. Allow me several key objectives of this Penal Code. One of them is the harmonisation of the Penal Code with other laws. Namely, this Penal Code was passed in 1999. As part of then comprehensive reform of criminal law, it has been in force since 1 July 2001. Once adopted, 13 times has been amended and completed, and this is one of the reasons why it is necessary to approach the creation of a new Penal Code. The next objective is to bring this law into line with conventions and standards at global and European level. When drawing up a proposal for a Penal Code, special attention should be paid to the latest practice in the system of enforcement of prisons at international level through the application of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, revised by the UN Standard Minimum Rules on the Treatment of Prisoners, the revised European Prison Rules, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, based in Strasbourg, and the recommendations and warnings of the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty. Then the national preventive mechanism and the attorney general. One of the objectives is to execute prisons in the Republic of Croatia, prison execution operations are tasks of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, are carried out in special conditions and penitentiary and prisons which are special establishment units of the Administration of the Prison System and probation of the Ministry of Justice. The Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System and the Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice manages, provides resources for work and oversees the work of a total of 21 criminal bodies in the Republic of Croatia, which are 7 penitentiary and 14 prisons, 2 educational institutions, the Centre for Diagnostics in Zagreb and the Centre for Education. In the penitentiary, prisons or the Centre for Diagnosis in Zagreb daily there are about 3500 people deprived of liberty, there are different categories, about 1200 inmates and prisoners, 2200 inmates and 100 inmates or inmates, and about 2600 civil servants and tenants of whom are about 1600 judicial police officers who have the status of authorised official with special powers regarding the use of coercion and firearms. One of the measures and objectives is to encourage the employment of young people in the prison system by drawing up a proposal for a law on the execution of a prison sentence, with the improvement of conditions and the maintenance of prison sentences and the exercise of the rights of prisoners. The aim was also to improve working conditions and to encourage employment of young people in the prison system in view of today's situation, the lack of staff and subsistence, as well as work in difficult conditions in the prison system. For example, exposure to increased stress may attack officials and members of their family, exposure to infectious diseases, night work, etc. Then we have an increase in the amount of severance of authorized officials. Social partners in the prison system in the Republic of Croatia in September 2019 They organised a protest to improve working conditions and increase material rights. The proposal for a Penal Code provides for an increase in the amount of severance of authorised officials. One of the goals is to improve the quality of prisoner accommodation. In the context of the protection of human rights of prisoners or persons deprived of liberty in the application of the Penal Code, the remaining factors determined for the quality of the accommodation of prisoners or general conditions for the execution of prison sentences such as the importance of the existence of natural daylight and the flow of sufficient fresh air, as well as the hygiene and sanitary conditions, as well as the quality and scope of health care, nutrition, contact with the outside world and the extension of spectrum of meaningful activities for prisoners who maintain the prison sentence in closed conditions aimed at reducing the number of hours spent in the dormitories during the day, and the frequent review of the performance of individual programmes and the execution of prison sentences. One of the goals is the education of prisoners. The proposal for a law on the execution of prison sentences provides for the introduction of new technologies particularly in the part of the education of prisoners and contact with the outside world to prepare prisoners for life on the loose. The justice ministry in co-operation with UNICEF is conducting a pilot video-visiting project based on child rights to strengthen and improve family relations. Furthermore, in cooperation with associations, external universities and within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's projects and the oral rehabilitation of addicts, the training of inmates for computer occupation is carried out. This is only one part of the goals that the Croatian prison system, or the Ministry of Justice, implements towards our prisoners. Please support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-25-0.u195209	I thank my colleagues, Plazonic. This brings us to the end of the debate, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met. This was all for today we will continue tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on the scheduled agenda. Thank you. SESSION DISCONTINUED Proposal for a law on the execution of prison sentences, first reading, P.Z. No. 852. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal of the Penal Code and 2.: Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final draft of the law. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, and the result is 117 for and 12 abstentions.
