ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185555	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We will start with work today, I would suggest if you agree we have three points that are the 2016 HRT Business Report, bizarre but so, the 2017 HRT Business Report and the 2018 HRT Business Report, if you agree, would suggest that we unite those three points. You agree, thank you very much. He doesn't mind? Thank you. The second thing, I'd suggest we supplement the agenda, just to announce that then at 12 we'll be joined by two new members of the assembly, so this one, then we'll do it at 12 o'clock, right? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185556	Dear Chairman, good morning. This is how we would pray on behalf of the club if we could extend the debate from 15 minutes to 20 minutes, given that all three of these points of the agenda are united.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185557	I agree. It's possible, business is possible, if others agree the same, I think we can extend it. Okay, this one's good. Then we'd start working. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and the basis of Article 247. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament be held in a united debate on these three points which we have accepted. The holder shall be the head director of the HRT based on Article 18. HRT law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The esteemed head director of HRT, Kazimir Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185558	Good afternoon, I would like to submit a business report 2016, 2017 and 2018 as proposed in a single joint report. In 2016, despite frequent changes in the management structure, the principal director and directorship, HRT took a number of measures aimed at stabilising business and the successful achievement of its legal obligations under the resources available to finance them. After the amendment of the Director-General in March 2016 by appointment of V.D. The main director was analysed for the implementation of the impact of the HRT restructuring programme in the period planned, meaning between 2014 and 2015. Based on the analysis carried out, v.d. Director-General and V.D. The directorate assessed that the implementation of the restructuring programme was not implemented until the end and that it failed to achieve the expected objectives, so it was abandoned. Without prejudice to the leaving of the restructuring programme as defined, the previous principal director and the new V.D. The Director-General and the Directorate-General continued the restrictive cost policy as they took action towards completing the start-up of strategic investment projects, the largest of which was the procurement of Temples and HD news cars with the aim of technological modernisation and modernisation of the production system and the achievement of future savings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. HRT has implemented several significant and demanding projects, from which we single out the Summer Olympic Games in Brazil, the European Football Championship in France, the second season The Voice best voice, as well as a series of other projects that sought to satisfy the interests and needs of the general public in a program way. At the same time, a high level of investment in the production of domestic software content and part of the permanent value, occupied and high positions in multimedia and mobile platforms, and the increase in end-user reach achieved in this part. In short, the result of the business is 30.3 million kuna profits, this profit was achieved as a result of continuing to implement the programme of cost control within the planned costs, and savings made in all segments of the business despite the application of conservative accounting policies compared to previous years. The results achieved are the result of positive effects in the financial activity segment of the HRT, i.e. exchange rate changes, as well as the result of a reduction in interest rates per loan. Total revenue in 2016 It was a billion and 393 million kuna, which is slightly less than that in 2015 and, by 1.1%. These revenues have been achieved from several major sources, primarily from the monthly fee of a billion and 192 million kuna, then revenues from advertising 96.8 million kuna, other business revenues of HRK 60.4 million and revenues from donations from the state budget of 10 million, 950 thousand kuna. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. It was a billion and 363 million kuna, and it was primarily related to the cost of salaries and other incomes which were less than results and large investment investments and an annual production plan of 358 million kuna. HRT was in that 2016. implemented a high investment policy in long-term assets, as well as in technology and in part of software content, which affected the maintenance of the value of long-term assets, total investments in long-term material and immaterial assets amounted to a total of 125 million kuna. Changes in the HRT balance sheet relative to the previous year are mostly related to the increase in the current value of long-term assets by 4.1% and most of all to the flag of material assets, which is due to the realisation of investment investments during 2016, of which we most significantly stand out, as I said the news car and investment in HD technology, as well as the Temples system. As regards debts in 2016, commitments to banks and other financial institutions were increased by €26.3 million compared to 2015. The increase in credit debt was used to reduce the total short-term debt of HRT, while delays in the settlement of the commitments made were also reduced, as well as the collateral for the settlement of commitments due at the beginning of 2017, more specifically obligations towards suppliers, obligations for taxes and contributions, etc. in which the most significant obligations towards the Council for Electronic Media, followed by HAVC, the Pluralism Facility, as well as other short-term commitments, the fees that have fallen by 35 million kuna, which have been paid daily maximum and reduced to maturity deadlines. In view of the relatively limited potential for revenue increases, the main focus was on cost management with a basis, a basis, a goal of increasing resource efficiency and cost reduction, with the aim of taking up maximum cost accounting activities, and an allocation of all costs of production on essential assumptions to strengthen control and cost control functions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This objective has not been fully achieved, but basic assumptions have been made for the introduction of cost accounting in force since 1.1.2017. This was a short report for 2016, and then I'd move on to next year, to 2017, given that they were 3 years old, and then I'd end up giving some parallel values. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A stable governance structure has been established, thus finally providing for conditions for further development and the launch of the necessary processes leading to the transformation of the system, and a negative trend in the programming and business segment has also been halted. In the programming sense, HRT achieved the programme objectives set out in 2017 in which several significant and demanding projects were realised, from which we singled out the first season of A Page, and a series of other projects that sought to meet the interests and needs of the general public were also played. The software content was developed except in a linear environment and in two new ways, nonlinear and applicative, which is characteristic of the younger population and which we have to media coverage. The order of domestic content from independent producers was significantly increased in 2017 compared to previous years and increased production of domestic programmes was also achieved. Negotiations were held in 2017 and a new five-year contract was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government for the period 1.1.2018 to 31.12.2022, thus creating a stimulating working environment and allowing all free professional expression. Negotiations have been launched to conclude a new collective agreement for the purpose of regulating the rights of HRT employees in a way that would retain the overall material rights of workers at the same level from previous periods with a different allocation of funds with the aim of a fairer distribution for all HRT employees. Since 1 January 2017, the HRT has introduced separate internal accounting for the public and commercial services activities that enable direct and indirect revenues, expenditures and business results resulting from the provision of public services to HRT from income, expenditure and business results resulting from the performance of commercial activities, thus fulfilling the obligation of art. 38th of HRT. Financial data suggest that the result of the business in 2017 after the tax deduction amounted to 100 million kuna and 46% more than planned. All these gains are aimed directly at covering the transferred losses of HRT. The revenues made in 2017 were a billion 389 million kuna, of which a billion 192 were generated from the tax, then from the advertising of 85 million kuna and other revenues of 70 million kuna, there is also a grant from the state budget of 10.9 million kuna. As for expenditure, expenditure was a billion 301 million less than in 2016. The realisation of expenditure relative to the plan is in all positions below the planned values, except for part of the cost of permanent staff. Due to the shift in the early realization of planned activities aimed at reducing labour costs as well as the payment of compensations related to the personally conditional termination of the contract compared to the previous year, the realisation of expenditure is lower, given that 2017 was not burdened by significant costs of major sporting events such as some later years. The higher cost realisation was recorded in part of the depreciation costs resulting from continued investment in long-term assets. During 2017, a total of 132.5 million kuna investment was realised, of which 103 million kuna refers to immaterial investment, i.e. software content, and 29.5 million kuna in material assets. The liquidity of HRT compared to previous years has been significantly improved and payment obligations are made within the agreed payment deadlines, which has not been the case until then. Compared to previous 2016, debt to banks was reduced by 78.2 million kuna, bringing it below the planned level, despite the fact that HRT was in charge of the next 120 million kuna. With positive business developments and improved financial indicators of HRT, the bank's trust was restored and the interest rates reached were extremely favourable on average below 2%, and the last loan in 2017 was agreed at an interest rate of 1.1% fixed in kunas over a period of five years. The cost of interest has been reduced by 2.7 million kuna due to a reduction in average interest rates. I'd like to move to 2018 now. This Regulation HRT was launched by the fifth channel, namely HRT International, intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the international public. Access to satellite signal is thus possible in Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand, and specialized content is broadcast which is the selection of content from four Croatian national television programs and the selection from archive material. In February 2018, he reopened his correspondence in Mostar and Sarajevo. During the year, several major projects were realised in the sports program, monitoring the World Football Championship in Russia as the biggest Croatian project with the extremely successful project called "The Fun", then direct transfer of Croatia's football team's return to Zagreb for an uninterrupted duration of 9 hours and 42 minutes, which HRT realised in its own production and freed the signal from other national televisions, followed by as many as 1.8 million viewers, then the Winter Olympics, the Paralympic Games, etc. Of the important projects also in connection with the death of musician Oliver Dragojevic, a special direct transmission of his last dispatch was ensured, and then the drama series "The Keeper of the Castle" was sold to the Swedish service, Netflix bought the series "Novine" etc. So I'll just say two more numbers. The result of the business is the profit of €81.3 million after tax, revenues were a billion and 387 million, and expenditures were a billion and 297 million kuna. In the income sense, it should be pointed out that despite the Social Measures and Decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exemption of debts as well as the debt in debt, retaining the amount of duty of 80 kuna for eight years in a row of HRT has managed to maintain the stability of income as a fundamental source of financing of public activity while in part of commercial sales it has managed to collect the rights of illegal broadcasting of HRT programmes over the past years and to contract with cable operators in order to ensure the future course of income. These are the shortest lines from business 2018, now I would just like to say for the end that all profits in these three years are direct, is the resolved transferred loss which in 2016 amounted to 587 million kuna, then in 2017 it was reduced to 549 and in 2018 to 440. It means a significant reduction in the transferred loss. As far as credit debt is concerned, credit debt has been reduced from the initial 350 million kuna to 157 million kuna. This was carried out directly, all of this was done in accordance with the opinion and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given on the occasion of the 2016 business report, which is the execution of the commitments under the contract with the Government, means a restrictive cost policy in all segments carried out with a view to achieving a specific financial result, creating own sources of financing, reducing credit debt and general debt. Then the balance sheet recovery by reducing the transferred debt as we have seen, and retaining a high level of investment both in software and in content, and in material assets, technological recovery and raising the quality of the production of the programme. This would be the shortest possible report since it's been three years, and for details and specific questions, ready here to answer all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185559	Thank you very much. We've got quite a series of replicas on your exposure, so let's get on with it. First came the Honorable Representative Bulj, even before you started speaking. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185560	Thank you very much for your depression, Vice President, every morning. Here, I would ask the principal, the director what with the archives for preservation, what you did archives, from valuable archives from the Homeland War, if then there were no other TV houses, all that was around the Homeland War, means as far as I know there is one project pride of the homeland, agreed with the director then v.d. Mild Markot, meaning complete review, processing, digitisation of archival war materials from Dubrovnik to Osijek and important archives. How much information I have had was 2017, 2016 already, and as far as I know you haven't signed it yet, that you're talking about the meaning of one content that I have even a witness to fail, ends up in other TV homes and basically ends up literally this valuable material from the Homeland War in trash cans. What did you do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185561	Your Honor, Director General, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185562	About the issue of archives, HRT takes care of its archive in a way that all material has been recorded on the media to preserve the content, and as regards previous years, archives that have been on our TV centres such as Dubrovnik and thus have been moved to a central archive where they are properly cared for in order to save the materials for the future. So, HRT and, as we worry most about the state of the archive, we worry that this material is properly and properly listed and that the content is preserved. In that sense, all activities have been undertaken, and now one activity is related to digitisation of archives in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, so we will also be in this segment. give maximum pain to save the archive. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185563	The next replica of the esteemed Strenja MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185564	Thank you. We'll probably have an answer to every question like this because what you said turns out that my colleague Bulj is not telling the truth, but we're going to call you today and talk to you, and among other things, it's that you're not investing in the production of public interest programs that are important to viewers and what's HRT's duty as a public service, but you're buying foreign production programs that are just advertising and entertainment. And the emissions produced by your employees, such as Labyrinth which opens very important topics you put on 4 programs, so on 1 program you put club 7, external productions etc., etc. How about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185565	The reply of the esteemed principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185566	As for external production or independent production, independent production and investment in the programme means that it grows from year to year, which is our legal obligation. Therefore, we are investing in external production and public content, there is also the opinion of the Council for Electronic Media which speaks of the fulfillment of the contract between the Government and the HRT which is fully fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185567	The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185568	Your Honor. When you started talking about the report, you pointed out that HRT bought a new modern news car, you were talking about modernisation, and I'm curious about how it happened, for example. Some television that's on the market, I'll be specific to N1, there's a small device that stands in your pocket and can be reported live here from the Parliament there was, so from Croatia from the world, and you need a car of 40, 50 tons. I wonder what kind of modernisation you're talking about, or what's really going on? Here's an unknown to me, and I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185569	The Honorable Chief Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185570	Your Honor. It's about the meaning of HRT taking care of its technological base and what you're saying the reporting device also benefits the HRT and in this segment does not lag behind, although it does precede some other TV. And as for the big news circuits you said it actually serves exactly to cover the big events as I mentioned, the arrival of the Croatian team and all the events that HRT conveys and this signal gives to everyone without compensation. Some of these events are the European Capitals of Culture in Rijeka which gave the signal to everyone, this is the last event, now we will have the inauguration of the President of the Republic who will also record and give it to everyone and that signal will be available. Thus, high capacities serve to cover major events.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185571	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185572	Your Honor, Director. I'll ask you a question. I see here many here are pushing for the cancellation of the TV subscription, if you remember you, upon your arrival or by your choice here, promised to go in that direction. It was not done, and not only was nothing done on this matter but I will remind you that you participated with the Bar of Law in the destruction of the Croatian Law, which was brought by this Croatian Assembly where you explained that you cannot make your own payments to the citizens, in order to require new employees, etc., by which you went for the benefit of law firms and public notaries who, thanks to this law proposed by MOST, lost some of them, only some law firms that own certain media houses or certain printing companies 40 million kuna per year. Why did you play for lawyers and public notebooks at the expense of Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185573	The Honorable Chief Director. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185574	The first question was if I wasn't wrong about the fee, I would point out that the tax for the last ten years has not been increased since 2011, although if it were to comply with the legal options it could now be instead of 80 kuna 96 kuna. So, as for the costs that have increased in the meantime, HRT still managed, despite all the negative financial situations, to maintain all and complete its obligations under the contract with the Government in terms of the production of the programme in terms of independent production, in terms of the reduction of credit debt, in terms of increasing labour efficiency, so I think that a good job has been done here for these years that we have been talking about here. As for the fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185575	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185576	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chief Director. I've been to the studio several times at our HRT center in Split and it looks pretty bad in a very derivative state. I hope from what you've been saying today about these reports in '16, '17, 18 that you can find the funds to get this studio settled and here I'd like you to say whether it's possible this year or next? On the other hand, to create a good program to make a good show with good journalists, you need a technical team, installers, cameramen. They have extremely small salaries, some people are slowly leaving, it wouldn't be good when HRT created these people to leave HRT like finished people looking for a better job. I think we should do something about it. Maybe it's a chance to say if it's possible through, regardless of the cost-restriction and the salary hike in people's technical professions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185577	Thank you. The Honorable Chief Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185578	It's possible and we're doing it right now, so we've increased the salary fund by a certain percentage that was possible in the context of financial operations so that we don't get into any more financial problems, and that amount is aimed at increasing wages to the categories that you're talking about that we're aware are not adequately paid for. So we're making an effort to correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185579	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185580	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. So worse than having a party television that we have at this point is that we have a party and inefficient television that we have squared at this point in the Republic of Croatia. And my question to the director of HRT is going to tell me, in the debate we will be touched by HDZ personnel who have possessed the information program, but is interested in one particular case, so the series of Generals donated 9.6 million kuna of taxpayers to the production house that did it, of which no benefit was there for the country war, damage and for General Gotovina, the generals who remember themselves in the series themselves have been fenced out of it, I wonder if those 9.6 million kunas that HRT gave ineffectively, and I would say the Buddha why, did someone answer for it? Here, we all know how that show ended. I wonder if it's anyone. [[Intruder: Thank you]] on HRT bearing sanctions [[Intruder: Dear...]] 'Cause we threw it away. [[Intruder:...head director...]] 10 million kuna? [[Intruder:...response]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185581	As far as the General series is concerned, it was fully agreed before the arrival, before my term of office took place so that all the consequences of it I had actually inherited and the material was delivered in accordance with the contract and aired according to the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185582	The following replicas, respected MPs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185583	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ma'am. Tinker Bell, I see a lot of room for improvement even though some improvements have been made, you mentioned a restrictive business policy. Restrictive business policy should not apply to the production of its own programme, in particular documentary, educational and children's policy, so I insist that this fact be taken into account because it is one of the sucus and purpose of public television, almost one of the most important objectives of public television. There should also be additional balance and costs to further invest in the production of education, children's and documentary programmes, because HRT has all the opportunities and conditions, so investment and technical infrastructure are important as well as in good projects, as well as the resolution of losses, but above all I see room for improvement here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185584	Thank you, Your Honor, Director General.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185585	Yes, I agree that there's still room to be... efforts to make public content even more, although produced, to further improve the segment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185586	Dear Representative Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185587	Dear Mr. Kazimir Bačić, you are the head director of HRT and as such you are the only and main and responsible for everything that happens in HRT, and HRT is stuck technologically in the late '90s and now what you are doing with the modernisation of HRT, you are investing 28 million kunas in the purchase of reporting cars, which is less than 0.7% of your income in these 3 years, and in the whole modernisation, so I am talking about HD you invested about 200 million kuna, which is below 0.7% of total income in 3.g. My question to you is, what are you doing with our billions, with billions from Croatian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185588	The Honorable Chief Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185589	HRT is extremely concerned about all segments of business, as well as the technological situation of HRT, it would not agree that, that there are more significant problems, as far as investment in technology itself is concerned, I think that investment is necessary and that it is achieved in a good proportion because, as you can see, the 4 programmes are continuous, is, is produced, a programme at a satisfactory level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185590	The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185591	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Director, in your report you mentioned the rationalization and cutting of costs, so I would like to point out again that a number of years ago you abolished correspondence in Slavonski Brod, Novi Gradiška, Orahovica, Virovitica and it was before you, so I'm curious about how much savings were made, whether you have this information, because with the right of citizens Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema are angry with what was done, jobs have been abolished, there are no contributions about, from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema except in the regional journal, rarely when we see them on HRT, and they pay taxes and HRT subscription and deserve to be better accompanied by both the OPGs and their production, young people who have a series of activities through civil society associations and certainly have to be congratulated both Višni and Silvija which are now, the journalists and drivers and journalists can do it. Whether to reopen correspondence [[Intruder: Thank you]] In Slavonski Brod, we expect it from you. [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185592	...the principal director.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185593	It is true that my predecessors in one period have shut down the whole of the correspondence, we think, I don't think that's good and exactly in terms of what you're saying and we continue to return some correspondence because we think that the regional programme is an important programme because it's one of the fundamentals of public function. So far, as I mentioned in the report, we have returned correspondence in Mostar, Sarajevo, Vukovar, Varazdin, meaning and we intend to continue this series, so I fully agree that in Slavonia there is an insufficient, insufficient number of correspondence given the large area and given the interest it has there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185594	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185595	You said, you said that you opened in early February HRT correspondence in Mostar and Sarajevo, and I appreciate that this is a good move and thanks to HRT, here we hear that correspondence should be returned to certain parts of the Republic of Croatia where it was shut down during the previous term, before you can even speak objectively about informing about BiH if you have said that there was a 4-year break. Do you agree that there is no objective information without personnel that can provide basic assumptions for objective information.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185596	The Honorable Chief Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185597	We plan to empower the segment you're talking about, and that's what we plan to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185598	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185599	Thank you. Dear Director, that we understand each other immediately, there is no doubt that public television should be financed by this model that is now, I don't know if it's the happiest, but it's what it is. My question to you is very clear. Are you prepared as the principal director in this direction to keep the poorest citizens on guard against the poorest citizens, however, allowing rTV fees to be paid at a reduced price? The solution so far is not enough, most citizens, it is only aimed at those pensioners who retired on 12 October 2015, after that date for others is not worth it. Only then that group of pensioners whose pension is less than 1,500 kuna. Are you ready as CEO to go in that direction to free the poorest part of the payment because the message is clear, to paraphrase an actor from an ad "not because I don't give, but because I don't have one", so people don't have a rt subscription because it costs too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185600	The reply of the esteemed principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185601	Dear Representative, as we know, there is a certain group of people who are retired and socially endangered who have been freed 50% of the fee according to decisions so far. As for the other low-income members, we can still see that this round of current people who have been released has passed, but that we need to conduct one discussion to see how effectively this is implemented and in what amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185602	The next is the replica of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185603	HRT records It is therefore positive that HRT records positive business. [[Insect: Just a minute, here you go.]] However, in terms of income and expenditure, Croatia's revenues and expenditures are about a billion and 300 million kuna figures. It is known from this report that around 10 million kunas are all spent on informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat more than 3 million of our countrymen. Is that why you don't think it's a big imbalance in these means? The more the 10 million kuna, according to my data, more than 70% refers to satellite broadcasting or payment, and only 20% to program production. And what I'd like to comment on here, so HRT has this data on about 2,800 employees, so is it always, is it really necessary to get out of independent production besides all music editors, music editors getting HRT Top 20, Pop rock etc. And hundreds of other independent shows to say production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185604	The reply of the esteemed principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185605	As far as independent production is concerned, it is regulated by law, so we owe 15% of the cost of production of the programme in independent production, which is legal regulation. And as for the total fee, which you said was being spent on whom and on what, I would just like to say that out of the total amount of 80 kuna 55 kuna remains for the cost of producing HRT programs, and the rest are different separations such as HUZIP, Transmitters and Connections, Media pluralism Fund and other costs so that we only know the distribution of these costs. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185606	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first will be the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the time will be shared by respected representatives of Grmoje and Ines Strenja. First honorary representative of the bush, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185607	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I was already on the press board, putting out some criticism about the work of HRT leadership, the director himself and what is happening on HRt. So, I don't want this debate to turn into that, and that usually happens when the debate about HRT's information media service and that part of the program is, although of course, what affects both public change and what we politicians like or control, or have influence on, is not my intention, my intention is television, public television where there will be places for all the political options, for the different worlds and values that exist in Croatian society. It is indeed plural, and it should be public television. But we all know that's not the case. And it's not just a situation now that HDZ is in power, it's the same thing when SDP was in power. Let us remember the shift of editors, journalists on public television, however, as far as I know, Ivo Josipovic was doing more at HRT than Zoran Milanovic because that was supposed to be the deal. Now we have a situation that the whole media or information media service is so set that there is simply no room for opposition. If there is room then there is room for the largest opposition party, but of course not to the extent to which HDZ and HDZ ministers are represented and the prime minister himself, which makes sense to me, because of course the citizens are most interested in what the Government's moves are and I also said to the Media Committee that it is logical for me that the Minister himself, the Prime Minister himself, have some 70% of the space and in the information shows and in these shows that are of a debate character, type “Open” or “The Theme of Days”, but that they have as much space as they now have not been normal. And what's interesting is that this HDZ opposition also has no space on public television. So if you are watching “This Day ” and the topic is, for example, The fight against drug consumption, opiates and the rest will not necessarily call our representative Celic because he is opposition to Plenkovic or our Ines Strenja but will invite someone from this Plenkovic circle. I don't think that's good, that you should call people who are experts, no matter what option they belong to. Also here from this place I want to warn that simply when the director talks about modernisation and equipment, I am for HRT to have the best possible equipment and to work on modernisation, but then you have to be up-to-date and fast. It can't happen that those who invest much less than you to be much more up-to-date. And to ask you now as CEOs, it's not yours, part of it is your responsibility because you're responsible for the work of the entire public television, which the HRT opened, what problem in society has HRT opened? Not one. And the affairs open either portals or possibly presses or some other private television. And then you're late talking about it, no matter what spectrum it is. If it's about questions where the right spectrum is talking about certain things, you're not even here. Here's if now there's a coalition of some right center and I don't know a liberal if that's what we're going to call HNS in power, so you're not the first either. The problems of corruption in society, you're not here. You do not open any important topic in Croatian society. What's positive on HRT has good shows, here's a colleague of Strenja's talking about "Labirint", but moving to some non-stricken times. There are also good shows of fun character on HRT, there are good and dramatic series and it should be commended, there are failures. And I wouldn't blame you completely for your failure. Now here's the story about this movie and the drama series "General", so it doesn't know which public television behind such an interesting project, it's an interesting project. But here's kind of the consensus in the public that it's been badly done and that unfortunately one very good and interesting subject has been spent that way. So there are good things, there are bad things, the biggest problem is that you're not up-to-date enough, you have the best capacities, the best equipment, but you can't see it, so you can't see it anywhere and you can't recognize it. These private televisions of yours, I'd say they come in and they're better than you, and then when you talk about that tax not growing, you have solid financial resources than that fee from Croatian citizens, and then you should be ahead of it. Of course, not only to compete for ratings because it's not the purpose of public television, but then we should at least be the first to open these topics that matter in society, you're not the first, you can't be praised. But what worries, worries that there is no awareness of any need to change things, and that is what I think most of all, and I think that it is the task of all of us not to affect you and HRT on public service so that some of the topics that matter to us or that our political option would have space on public television rather than to fight for it. And I do indeed seek that all segments of Croatian society, all groups of Croatian society, all those who have certain problems can get access to HRT and talk about these problems. I think it should be your interest because yet private television or private media have those who advertise, behind it of course there are certain interests and maybe they don't want to come into conflict with them. You should have different policies. And here I am, as a member of the Media Committee, and as a parliamentary representative, will insist on it. I asked you on the Media Committee and on these co-regulatory contracts and agreements, the impression is general from what I have as information that the HRT is simply at a loss. You give huge money 95% of the funds, and you have limited primary rights to 7 years, then independent producers become owners of that material, and if HRT means if you want to broadcast it you have to pay for it. In fact, you're giving 100% of the cost of a series or a movie in nature, and that's not good, and you said you'd deliver that information to the Media Committee about it. I also asked the question, they said it was not the task of the Media Committee, that the Media Committee deals exclusively with business, but I am interested in delivering to the Croatian Assembly in the following report if it is possible to submit some analysis of the occurrence, meaning the ruling and opposition and certain analysts or commentators that have been subscribed to HRT. I don't know if there are any days when I turned on HRT that I didn't see Ivica Relković or, or Pera Maldini, so these people, so there are other smart people, that's what I said on the Media Committee both on the left and right spectrum, which could comment on something other than those two people, means but they're doing the tasks, I once told Nadjvinski that they were castle commentators, he was very offended, and then I told him that after his appearance to me, in which he brutally attacked me as a guest, I said that he would also be pleased with Plenkovic and, and the team, so we can't treat the public service in such a way. If we want to have different views, different opinions on HRT, then it should be called different people, there are various different people on the left and right spectrum and in the centre that can see from all these corners the currents, events and topics that appear in the public space, and I think it should be your task, and private televisions can behave as they want, can also be propagadistic to push either a particular political option or a certain worldview, and that should not be the task of public service, private televisions can do so, meaning they can be this FOX, they can be unaware of any media house that we have in the world, push meaning a particular political agenda, a certain political option, and it is quite legitimate and, and, in my opinion, it is not good that these private media claim that they are objective and impartial, they need to be clearly clear which I do not see here, there is not. Uh, I'm leaving this rest of our time, my colleague Ines, I got a little carried away with that, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185608	Honorable representative of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185609	Thank you, I welcome the chairman and representatives and director of HRT, so the role of public television, the only one we pay for, because we have other good television is to serve in the public's interest and process topics that are important to citizens. And as I've already said, it's really questionable, and we need to open the question today, which is why it invests in the content of external production that ultimately only turns out to be commercials and entertainment, and some quality programs that you could produce are no longer done in your own production. And why shows produced by your employees like that. The Labyrinth that really has very high quality contributions is pushed to the 4th program, and on the 1st program is Club 7 which is from the external production and which goes where only commercials go. The gardener and the top show followed by a certain part of our citizens and I always followed her regularly, she was yours, she was produced by your HRT employee, but it was important to drive her away and now you buy that same show at a much higher price. HRT has also produced good and award-winning tourism HR, it has been transferred to the 4th programme, and you have taken the destination of HR that is produced in private production. And you finally abolished Croatia live, followed every afternoon by our citizens, you put on a show of fun character, and now you buy out five-minute contributions to this show that was previously produced by permanent HRT employees, etc. So, so you get millions out of the house for something you can produce yourself, and the question is why. So, this buys out entertainment content and loses the essence of the secret of television itself, which is like I said, serving the public, the work and the public interest and processing of topics that are important to citizens because we only pay for your television subscription. The information program in the service is a policy that is in power. In the years when journalists shake every pore of our society, the information program of HRT has revealed absolutely nothing, even as much as you just follow, stunt and really with a real delay. So, you have disregarded the obligation and the duty of public television and in favour of commercials and commercials that produce external production, you are constantly working and you do not act responsibly towards the money you receive from citizens and the obligations prescribed by the law. You've made a colorful parallel, not a public interest in the citizens, and that's why we're calling you here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185610	Thank you, before we continue to welcome to the gallery of students and students of the Elektrostroyarna zdravnička svečina from Zagreb... The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185611	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Chief Director with Associates, Mr. and Representatives of the Ministry of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a programming period or a period of business from 2016 to 2018, and it would be appropriate to say a few words first about our own shame. In fact, it's 2020 now, and we're discussing reports from 4 years ago. and there is no doubt that there is no blame on HRT, but on our colleagues and colleagues who chaired the Committee on Information, Information and Media who held these and these reports for as long as 3 or 2 years. In a drawer and it's embarrassing. Today the 2016 report is completely missed, completely deplaced, and finally all three reports were found here at once. I hope that the 2019 report will come within 6 months ahead of us, otherwise it is absolutely pointless to talk about it, as if we were talking about historical events. What can we influence? Nothing. We can only observe trends. This is the period that came after a very stupid experiment we had in 2014, 2015. The public is perfectly clear and well-known what I was talking about at the time, and I am not changing my attitude. What has been done in these three years that the report on the table is here to resolve the consequences of this? I'd say a little, maybe not at all, except that it gave up the restructuring model, except that it gave up the restrictive and savings model. And let us remember that it was an ultimate public demand that such a business system that spends about a billion and 300, billion and 400 million kunas annually be finally reduced to normal frameworks, that there are no more 3,500 or more employees than there are in the normal business framework that produces a certain amount of quantum program that is basically nothing more than the production of some commercial television, and they are available in their annual budgets with three to four times less funds. So all that HRT gets through the subscription or fee of other televisions do not have, and the backlog of funds they produce almost the same number of minutes or hours as HRTV produces, here I put the Croatian Radio on the side and it should be mentioned both now and here in a positive context, much more than television itself. For years, Croatian radio has managed to maintain a higher level of quality, although there is something to say about program production, attractiveness, currentity, but it does a huge job that is not seen at all on television, for example, work. in the educational program. In these three years that are our table, HRT has had $4.3 billion, 4.3 billion, of which citizens made more than 3.5 billion through the subscription. It's huge money. The first and basic idea was to support the idea of survival of public information and any other audiovisual service provided that it fulfils those tasks that commercial televisions and radios cannot or are not interested in. And two, to achieve our cultural and political influences in a region where our language understands 20 million people. What's the level of our influence? Zero. Nothing beats 2011, '13. Or '15. the basic objective is not met. What we see through these reports is that formally HRT is holding contracts with the Government in a technical sense, it means absolutely nothing, not even the number of program minutes produced or hours doesn't say anything. The question is whether something that lasts for 50 minutes manages to accomplish its social task, perform a certain social or wider influence or not? If it does not matter to Croatian television, if it does not matter to the Government who should oversee the implementation of the contract, then this is completely pointless because it does not produce effect and spends huge money. I'll remind you of what the CEO said, in 2016, HRT was in charge of 587 million kuna credit claims, it had 350 million kuna losses. Now little math is wrong with me because the principal director says that in 2017, the debt was reduced by 70 million kuna. It was new loans that reprogrammed the old debt, so 120 million kunas of new loans were taken that year. I don't know what the total debt was, but the losses grew, losses to 549 million kuna in 2017. In 2018, losses amount to 440 million kuna, with an alleged debt of 150 million kuna. So it's a system that has huge debts, which annually produces 2016 in these three years. 30.3 million, 2017. 100 million and I don't see for 2018 what that amount is. It must simply be distributed to cover losses for the previous reason it is clear, but the dynamics of covering these losses do not say that this business system has become sustainable because it must continue to feed on new loans. HRT daily when we ignore the 5th channel intended mainly for emigration and the foreign public and is made up of a program already produced on the other 4 channels, so it broadcasts 96 hours a day, 96 hours a day. Multiply this with days, months or how many days a year it is, and you will get a huge quantum program that can have an incredible impact not only on society in Croatia but also in a zone where they understand our language. Yes, HRT, especially Croatian TV is able to produce top quality projects, but this is actually bad news because television itself reminds us of such projects that it can do anything, but does not answer the question why it does not do it all the time. So, projects for Bilek, A Strana, The Voice are top-of-the-line projects, top-of-the-line production, but that's where we left off, and maybe I'll mention one step they designed somewhere else, but TV was in it to the elbows and it can't, I can't give up credit, and that's the famous series of newspapers bought by Netflix, and then what happens is the project General, 10 million kunas are thrown into the wind. Why do I say it in the wind? Because neither those who see it nor those who see it, none of them have said a single positive word about the project, of course you can't know in advance what they will be directed at, but you can see and see the scenario, the script is so primitively poor that it couldn't produce a good series, it's someone had to read it, someone answers it, and today the leaders of the HRT are fenced from this project, and they say it was bought, or contracted before us, and that's what we'll buy when we already bought it we had to broadcast it, and why you didn't broadcast it in some other time and on some other channel, and not in taking it and on the 1st program, when it's already a disgrace, and it's because for those money could produce a miracle that any information correctly, as far as it relates to the domestic war, as well as the fact that it is correct, as to the fact that as it is correct, but as it's not true, it's true that the whole of the whole of the whole of the documents that it's true that it's true that it's true that it's true that it's true of the whole, or the whole, or the whole of the whole of the documents, because it's all of the things that it's true that it's true that it's true that it's true that it's true that it's true, because it's true that it's true that it's true that it's true, because it's true, because it's all of the things that it's all of all of all of the things that it's all of the things that it's true, or the things that it's all that the things that i's true. HRT must buy independent production, it is obliged to take care of the Croatian audiovisual product, according to the law, it is not at all controversial, but it has the capacity to buy anything produced by independent production in the Republic of Croatia, all without any problems because we are a small country and a small audiovisual industry and there is no big drama. But then why does it do it untransparently? Why is he making deals with producers under the grain? Publish the contest, then determine that out of the 50, now I caricate 50 of the projects that have arrived, and will buy 25, then the fear rises because there are no criteria, then are offered to some of the producers or authors of the other 25 who are not bought to agree directly. What's that? It's just a hoax, and secondly, it's a fight between people in an independent production, independent production scene. It's not good, it's not supposed to work that way, and we haven't fought and advocated for years in this HS which is the founder of HRT to make things better to get what we have today. The heart of a public service, of course, is an information program. If not, and if you say you can't deal with commercial television, stop it, so at least give it all, put all the accent on an educational children's program, but if it is why he's colorless, bluish, obscenity, anacron, inactive, unspeakable, why does he have such a small Sher? Why is the HRT information programme not a public changer? Because the helmet behind situations, as some colleagues have said, did not occur any single case of detection, say, corrupt affairs, and they are according to all indicators of what the citizens say and think, the key problem of this country and the key reason why it escapes from this country, why people think that somewhere other than their own country is living and doing better, happier and freer, no single case has discovered HRT. Now let's talk about Croatian television, not a single one, even though they didn't jump on that train a day later, but what do they do? They wait to see how the story will develop, whether other media will accept it, and increase the pressure, whether those to whom it applies are then on the defensive and if they are then going with the finished information, when the man is already drugged because they forced him to resign and move away from the government or from some public duty, there's an HTV that will report that it happened. In fact, vultures on other people's merits, and on Croatian television there is a great deal, despite the fact that many of you have gone and have sued many of your own journalists, blocked their mouths, banned them from speaking and working publicly, there are still a lot of people who have been able to make such contributions better than commercial TV, even though those journalists who do so on other commercial TVs have mostly left HTV because they had no room to do so on HTV. So much money to have available and so little actually produce quality is scandalous in itself. And you've had three years in a way, breaks, bonuses, for three years no one in Croatia has said that you're too busy on HTV. And you didn't use it to justify so many employees. I am talking about correspondence, as if the existence of correspondence is the only possible criterion for the creation of regional programmes. Of course not. It's not about correspondence, it's about correspondents, so you can have 10 correspondents in BiH instead of two correspondence for ten people. So you'll have information from Banja Luka, from Tuzla, from other parts. Also in Croatia, but you do not have the basic conditions for producing a current and objective programme in your own house. Look, for years we've been talking about how this policy can't go on, so-called policy. The minority program, it's a program that you've completely gotoized, so minorities speak for themselves and talk about themselves, that's not the point at all. National minorities who live and work in the Republic of Croatia have an interest in what they do, being known to the majority people. So that they are recognized by the majority people, that they see neither the remethyl factor nor the danger, essentially something unknown. Rather, to enable them to be affirmed by presenting to the majority people what they are doing, what they are dealing with, and what their problems are to make them easier to understand. What did you do? The Prizma show, the most important show of such a single program, has one camera on display once a week, so is it a shame? So if something happens on Thursdays, Fridays or Saturdays, it's a Prizma show that can't cover, it has to beg some other newsrooms to give up the camera if they have, and they don't, and what are we going to do? It didn't happen. We've been saying that for years. And that's like this, you can settle it at one in the morning that you have a good will and you have a wish, but you don't. Otherwise we wouldn't have listened to the same story for three years. But there was a big robbery in your term when 10 cameras from HRT went missing. So the question of goodwill, the question of desire, that's not on HTV. You formally and technically do the job, formally reduce the debt, refinance the old and ate the wolf donkeys with new loans. And we're at the same point about quality, influence, as we've been before. And yet, and for the hundredth time, no one on HRT has yet launched projects to preserve their own national identity through knowledge of their own history. No one has ever recorded a series about Strossmayer, Gai, Starčević and Radic. So much for caring for national identity. We as a club won't support any of these three reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185612	The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP and on behalf of it will speak the respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185613	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Director, Associates. HRT is a public service based on one fact that it is financed by the public. And nothing else. It's the TV everyone pays for and no one's watching because there's nothing to see on it. Except for the most common, cheap political propaganda and nationalist spine. Says the principal that the fee has long been on 80 kuna. And the editor-in-chief of all programmes, Bruno Kovacevic, advocates that the tax is increasing and argues that it could, on the legal basis, amount to as much as 96 kuna and that 16 additional kunas would be very helpful to HRT. Now look, a statement like this is an insult to intelligence. End of this creepy programme, ask 16 kuna of citizens who are already poor, instead of holding a referendum on the suspension of the tax, so be on the market. Let the Catholic Church pay you, and so on and on and on and on. Let the government pay you because you only follow the government's work in an unprofessional way, completely protocol. But what does the public have of you? So the public is looking at N1 to inform, that it's safe, that it's true what they're going to hear there. HRT was the last public service at the time it was managed by Mr Mirko Galić. After him, follow the collapse and then the free fall and finally the bottom, mud. Underneath this, I doubt he can do anything if you want. Both you and your editors and their journalists. The language spoken on HRT, so it's all just not Croatian. The press, the speaker, they don't even know the accent, they don't know the rules of action. The way the themes are handled. Well, I mean, it's all one bottom but let's not talk about ourselves, don't let this turn out now, the SDP is unhappy, Stazic worked there for 20 years on that HRT, now he's not doing it, so he enjoys criticizing it, let's not do it like that. Let's see what others say about HRT, what others say about us. German public radio, Deutsche Funk broadcast a 50-minute report last December titled "Croatian Radio Television" in which it is found to be HRT, quoting "A Scary Example of What Public Service Can Be Turned". The author of this report is German journalist Grit Eggerichs, she came to HRT with another task, which is to deal with environmental issues. But during her stay on HRT, a woman realized that she was the so-called Public service HRT itself is a much more interesting topic. She remained shocked by the way she worked on HRT and the censorship that rules there. The report describes the current way of working on HRT so as to establish that there is no coordination among different newsrooms, there are no editorial colleges, only protocol news about what the government and the president are doing is being monitored in the Information Programme, and journalists are being demoted to explore interesting topics, and that is true. So look, all these ministerial affairs, and 14 ministers have changed, opened the Index portals and Telegram, HRT none. Those who follow the work of ministers they follow if the minister visited this factory, did the president move his office to a village, that's HRT news, that's what they're interested in. The report points out that HRT in the 1990s was a state television full of censorship, which is true, which is true because the vice president of the HDZ was then the head director of HRT, Mr. Vrdoljak, but then the arrival of the SDP to power in 2000 changed it, according to the German journalist. However, a new radical change took place in 2016 when HDZ and MOST came to power and a team was brought to the head of the HRT, which is said to be bad editors and journalists who are unable to do their jobs, which, meanwhile, led to the decommissioning of the system within the public service. In 1916, what started was ending these days with programs like this. The HRT atmosphere is such that HDZ politicians no longer have to call either editors or journalists, they conduct self-censorship. They may have a problem, says this German journalist with her bosses if politicians dare to ask a question at all. According to the report, some Croatian journalists have also talked to the German journalist. Of course, she talked to them and their statements didn't show them, they couldn't be seen, they were afraid to show up and on German television and their voices were changed in the report to protect themselves from the terrors of HRT administration. The announcement says HRT is a frightening example of what a public service can turn into. A lesson about state media policy and its traps, that's the theme. Says the journalist, I didn't write it, but one of the editors said personally that it was a sad example. I came to HRT naive, but my colleagues quickly told me how bad working conditions are. A lot of money is being poured into HRT, and with those resources, the program could be much better. It is unusual that citizens who pay taxes from month to month do not require it to get better. And that's unusual, and that's something that testifies to the state of the nation that agrees with this kind of terror, which agrees to pay for something she needs but doesn't need at all and doesn't object, it's us. Says the editorial college "Divnika" does not look for interesting current topics, only news is read, and it is best that no real news, that the country has been hit by a storm or that the president visited a factory. Editors are obsessed with time and religious processes and like to produce completely pointless reports, doing everything they can not cause the authorities to get angry. It is truly fascinating how many minutes a day are spent on religious processes, completely pointless, so for the Church protocol events. There's a saint celebrating, my God, so every year when that saint is celebrated in that place, there's a procession going on there. So what is this news? So what does this news say? Well, that's not even for the TV calendar. But there is no day, there is no day that the program is not filled with such news and not once, often times three processes we have in the same "Dnevnik". Asked if senior HDZ members are calling editors with instructions on how to report, one of the journalists says it is not necessary. He probably says sometimes they call even though I can't say for sure. However, when I talk to ministers and politicians, there is no way to ask relevant questions, and when you dare to do so, you challenge the anger of editors and superiors because you did something they didn't ask you to do. The presidents are not allowed to ask questions or to oppose them. The government of the climate ban, important topics that public service should be troubled, is not touched by the fact that it is behind Chinese inclusion in the construction of the Peljega Bridge through the Serb minority to economic issues. If you trouble them, sooner or later you will come up with critical questions, which is not desirable. The documentary deals with Ljubica Letinić's case, which was suspended on the 3rd radio programme in 2016. The right-wing Association "Croatian Journalists and Publishers" has launched a public coup against this journalist by declaring her shows to be bitten by the Marxist, activist south of the uprisings. Award-winning journalist and editor Letinic today as well as numerous other high-quality journalists and professionals are no longer working on HRT, she has nothing to look for there. This documentary also explains a series of scandals that have been happening on HRT lately, e.g. The fact that the series of NDH historian Hrvoj Klasic remained incomplete and unemissioned. I asked the board's director-in-chief what was up with this series, and there was a lot of money and a lot of hard work and quality work. She's somewhere in the bunker, there's no time to install, or the current installer went to sickbay, making up reasons to make up something that's made up of quality, and from Belgrade they've got pictures of HND, never seen material, never seen. It was recorded not only in Croatia but throughout Europe. There's no way any quality show or historical truth could be shown on HRT. The only historical revisionism comes into consideration and the promotion of Igor Vukic's book, which denies crimes in Jasenovac. Such one Vukic received an appointment and he promotes such one of his books and nothing to anyone, nor to the editor, nor to the journalist, about the editor-in-chief, about not talking. The echoes of this text from this German journalist are just amazing. It's one breath of common sense. The “Index” portal published on the portal is the most read post, it can only be compared to that of the fall of Sandar or the rough Borg. Other social networks also transmitted this text, the text was processed by Mr. Jerko Bakotina in “News” and there was complete division, on one side the public, and on the other the political elite supported by this Croatian mastodon who spends so much money on the propaganda of one regime. How's the Prime Minister's relationship? He says: “I don’t need international analysis to see if or not there is freedom of the media in Croatia. I guarantee as someone who reads, I don't see the problem, it's more dramatic than there is a problem." But he is denied by his former Economy Minister Martina Dalic, who, one of the central figures of the Borg affair, who says: "The contents of that meeting in some way ended with journalists who I personally prevented from publishing," I repeat, which publication I personally prevented, since at that time the Ministry of Finance issued bonds on the one hand, and on the other hand threatened to tear down the largest company. So as many journalists as we can see, I can't say if anyone's calling them, but the minister admitted it. I do the shows and I stop or I don't stop the announcements. It's a state, it's a state, not by what Stazic says net about what Minister Dalic says. We have the case of Hrvoje Zovka and the editor-in-chief of Ms. Katarina Periša Čakarun's Information Program. Plenkovic got involved in the conflict, as prime minister, as a politician accusing Zovka of physically attacking his boss. The Zovko Fire trial ended in his favor, in his favor, by dismissing the charge of physical harassment. Now we see, Plenkovic who says, I don't need any foreign reports, so I know what the state is. It allows itself to get involved in an event debated in court and it is he who will determine the truth. Plenkovic placed himself there on the side of the editor-in-chief of the Informative Programme, as the programme continues to develop a cult of his personality, as his rivals in the campaign in this brother-in-law war currently in HDZ tell him about these days. He tells him one of his opponents, you create a cult of personalities, you do nothing else. It's helping him as hard as it can, the most he can do is HRT. We have a clear view of this, so these reports cannot be accepted. HRT is a sad testimony about how much free journalism and public service can be ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185614	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185615	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. All of us can observe from an ideological point of view, but when it comes to business reports, then you ideological influence should be minimal or smallest, and in the previous debate, in fact, ideology has covered a rational approach to the analysis of the report because I have not heard a word about the balance or the results of the business, the revenues, the expenditures and the critical things to say and to praise what should have been so. And the same speakers while the head of HRT was the owner of the former president's staff, then here the panegirians held public and the results of the business were much worse or worse. But that's why there are no reports that do not require critical consideration of the report. But professional, not ideological. And here I'd only give a few formal but professional dangerous ones. If we'd put up with three more months, we could have combined four reports, four years at a time, we'd be effective. And why are we discussing the 2016 report today? It's not true why we're discussing this report today, what Mr. Beus said, I'm sorry, he's not here, he said it's not being discussed because the Information Committee hasn't been in session for two years. So the truth is, HRT delivered the report for 2016 to the Croatian Parliament on 3 January 2018, which means rationally, critically, with 7 months late, and we last said and recommended it and requested from HRT to no later than 30. The 6th in future delivers a report for the previous year. But they're not January 30th, they've delivered another six months. Later. The Committee discussed this report on 14. Six. 2018, so he's almost 2 years old. Why wasn't debated in Parliament, that's another question but it wasn't the committee's fault. We can observe the report with many aspects and with more perspectives, but two are kind of the most important. Quality of the structure of the report and performance indicators. This report, i.e. these reports, are very well structured, contain all relevant data, and all these data show to read the state of the HRT. They point to the consolidation of business, the stability of the functioning of HRT and financial indicators are getting better and better from year to year. But there's something that's not so idyllic. For example, we cannot ignore that long-term assets have been increased and that is good to happen. It cannot be ignored that long-term liabilities have been reduced. And from 326 million to 193 million, almost halved and not a word of it, long-term liabilities have been halved. Liabilities to banks and other financial institutions have also been reduced. The cost of interest is reduced. But we have one phenomenon that's not good and these are claims. Advertisers owe, agencies owe HRT. It was seen even in these 3 time periods that one agency owed even in the previous year and it owed the current year and then it was visible in 2018, there is no business with that agency, that's good. But it's not good that he has financial indiscipline today, who doesn't pay, can't work. One who is unable to pay, did not deserve to do business in Croatia. And if anyone has to be an example, then be that example. Anyone who doesn't pay can't work. There's always someone else's account. Always. And then media activation goes right into protection sometimes those who attack those who want to prevent it but at the cost and that, please do it. Internal audit indicators, I'm just saying this not to say that it's not always ideological, but something that I think really needs to be improved. They say internal audit findings, that they totalled 51 recommendations in a year, that only 5 recommendations were partially carried out without 21. I think internal audit findings can be more up-to-date recommendations removed and removed. It is evident that the remaining costs that were enormous, 250 million kuna, item of other costs, have been reduced. So who can be understood in balance, income, expenditure, economic indicators, not compliment that indicator? They've been reduced, almost halved other costs. And when did they grow up? They grew at a time when we heard the biggest hrt praises here, such boasts were not heard from the '90s to today as they were 6, 7 years ago. The truth is that the Croatian literary language is compromised. This is also noted on HRT. But still HRT is an example of Croatian literary language for other media. It's coming up in two, three months. Easter will come and the media will flood the Easter holidays again and Easter Monday, just like this for a little while. And all of a sudden, it was thrown in so quietly, so the one who doesn't understand the Croatian language knows it can't be the Easter holiday and the Easter Monday. And that it is not participation but a share, that it is not participation but participation, and even in the report there are such errors. But you can see which journalists and leaders on HRT speak so well in literary Croatian language that we can't rarely hear it on another media and there are also particularly those fees that have little damage to the reputation of Croatian literary language. And most of all, it hurts more and more simplicity, more vulgarity, more hate speech that we have from day to day. And one series, this is a little personal review, one series everyone praises, I had to shut down after 3 minutes because it was not possible to listen or watch from vulgarity. It's such a language, I'm 60 years old, I haven't heard anywhere but just so many proscrations in one place, it's just unsustainable for normal, I guess there's no humor in Croatia if there's no swearing. However, what has been made a step in HRT's business in 3 years, it is for every praise and the HDZ club supports all three reports, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185616	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics, and time will be shared by respected representatives Silvano Hrelja and Glavasevic, first respected representative of Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185617	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in the replica, my colleague, Sagar, was talking about HRT flexibility and social sensitivity, and you told the principal that you were ready to discuss it. I mean, there is no need to organise a public debate, you in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament of this week have a law on the completion of the HRT Act, which was referred to in the procedure of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives, SNAGA and New Politics. Therefore, in this proposal, the law highlighted our opinion that the social sensitivity of HRT should be as regards the subscription because there is indeed a huge disproportionateity between the level of payment, the height paid by citizens and what they receive in terms of quality. All the time it's been said that HRT is a public service, give me that coin public service in some way visualize, what does that mean? We use one term but tell me what it means, what do citizens get? They get information, they get education, they're informed about how and how they can run for certain funds, how and where and how easier they can do something? Is this a public service to point out possible criticism to the work of public enterprises? Is there criticism to the institutions of the system? Can HRT ignore the fact that the IRS for 23 kuna extras in a waiter's wallet, the punishment of an entrepreneur with 23 000 kuna? Do we live in a country where the mancha isn't common? Are we building some space rules of life in these areas? Is HRT invited to write or to report why on the route Koprivnica-Križevci-Zagreb every week trains are 10 hours late cumulatively? Is that public money, is that what public money is used in the budget of the Republic of Croatia? Yeah. The financing of HRT is also used by public money through individual payments of the owners of RTV receivers. Don't we have the right to have information about the state of this country? Rare are the shows that talk about it. It's a rare show that all of us, our consciences can call out if we're doing well enough, whether we love this country. We do not need fighting songs, patriotic songs, not like Croatia, Croatia is loved by the fact that neural points are corrected and that if it were a public service, it would be the role of HRT, that it points to failures, not to be a party TV, not to report exclusively where there was a minister, who was visited by the president, whether her dog ate well and whether he was healthy etc. That's bullshit. I'm sorry. I don't know who's interested. In these reports there are a lot of numbers, a lot of finance, we're talking about technicals, a little bit about wages, but we're not talking about what we've given citizens, what kind of service we've given to citizens, what information we've given to citizens, where are they citizens? And about social sensitivity, a special story. Our initiative here in the Croatian Parliament of 2015, at the initiative of the HSU, took the decision of the Supervisory Board on the determination of the monthly fee paid by the HRT of the year and the benefits for certain categories of payment obligations. These are not benefits, they are respecting the inability to pay persons with disabilities, blind persons, pensioners who have fewer pensions etc. But know, from 2016 to today, decisions are exactly the same, copy-pass. The 2016 Decision states today that the pensioners who were retired in 2015 had the right to do so, as if after no pensioner had come, did not retire a single worker and has less pension than 1,500 kuna. No more cases like this on the ground. That's what this is about. It is about social sensitivity to those who deprive themselves of the quality of food, medicines, but are afraid of it, fear those payments that come to them monthly and the first thing that makes them pay and payments. Is that respect for this public service as you like to call it to those who finance this public service? No, it's not, it's not, and you can't possibly prove that it's social, social light. I ask you, comment on our law, here we propose a little more criteria to make those up to 1,500 kuna who have incomes of free payment, and that those who have up to 1,830 per member of the family and 2,340 if they live as singles to pay half a rTV fee. You know that rtv tax and supplementary health insurance take one almost average pension to pensioners. Do you know how hard it is to live with 11, growing 11 small pensions a year, for a year? Therefore, consider this law well, it is not directed against you, it is not directed against HRT, you can compensate it with certain programmes that will be financed directly by the Government of the Ministry, educational programmes, information programmes, information programmes, educational programmes. So, what you would fire 100 million citizens for the benefit of protection from poverty is no problem, that you are in constant agreements with the government, the government is all and the Supervisory Board and the controller, it can give you a job because it gives you the rest of the money, or it has to give it to you. And the pressures that such dismissal or reduction of the rtv tax would endanger the functioning of the public service should be done by both the Government and everyone selling the fog to someone else. Gentlemen fathers realistically, fathers real, rTV tax in Italy 4 Euros plus and average salary 15,000 kuna. In Slovenia 8,142 kuna average salary, 95 kuna is rTV tax. Ireland 24.165 kuna average salary, 99 kuna tax. France 17.150 kuna average salary, 86 kuna rTV fee. Croatia 6.432 kuna average salary, 80 kuna rTV fee. So let's compare. And I'd just like to finally give you a few quotes because this law is on our facebook and let me tell you a few quotes from our followers on the facebook that they say. HRT subscription should be completely cancelled because we have to watch constant replays and movies shown by not knowing which times. To many pensioners, it is a date, all they have, and they have to separate from their small pensions in order to share salaries in order to read that for the principal editor's salary, the editor-in-chief needs 500 rTV fees for one gross salary. So these are the comments. Throughout my entire working life, I have learned to spend my money where I want and to get what I pay for, if the director of HRT and the board of directors sets up the ruling structure and then let them finance HRT, today, as far as I know, no subscriber has an impact on the software content of what we pay for, every little rephrase shows, shows, movies we've seen countless times, and thus, pay for it. Until this proposal to rtv, HRT code so whoever wants to pay, and one who won't have to do it. He's continuing my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185618	The respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will now continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185619	Thank you. We will continue with the voice of the people. So we asked people on our facebook pages what they'd say to the head director of HRT, so here's a comment. He asks them what foreign policy editorials do to them besides following the protocol of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, Plenkovic and Krstic? Where are the top-notch reports and documentaries sometimes? Why do they have to publish every propaganda of beloved leaders? Journalists sit in the newsrooms, not to be worked, leaving the HRT mass, and then buying an external production. There's a case of outside journalists working documentary Veran Misurac who quit to get out of the country. Now he lives in Iceland and runs tourists on glaciers. Censorship is already an old thing. That's one comment. I'm not looking at HRT anymore so you can try to cancel the subscription, then let them boast with the results, Plenkovic's TV, I stopped watching them a long time ago. Thank God there are other TVs. Is it true that Tcom and A1 as TV service providers pay HRT fee, if this is a double payment by end-users according to HRT? We pay TV subscription and fee via Tcom or A1. You should ask him where he would've worked if his mother-in-law hadn't been? They're so good they're invisible. HDZ TV. We pay, but we don't watch. I can't comment because I don't watch them. It's a disaster, a rerun, a rerun. I don't watch Catholic TV. They're so good, I pay TV max to watch TV. Why did they cancel Croatia's live show? Why did the gardener get kicked out of their own production and now they're buying it from the outside? How come they lost most of their right to track sports events? I don't watch HRT, I don't see any reason to waste energy and time on the HDZ service. I'd love to say my opinion, but I can't help but watch. Who will be responsible for the purposeless spending of HRT funds we gave for the show and the film General because the production did not make or paid the bills? In Italy is a TV subscription of EUR 4; why is there EUR 11 in our country? That's why RTL and NOVA are breaking up with the program. I don't know which show I'd watch before? Rez's replay rerun, the overall program unspeakable. Zero points, I have and I pay the HRT just because they make me do it the rest are at least 20 years behind the rest of the world. The other user's been napping and saying, "I haven't seen him in years." Why were they renewing correspondence in Mostar and Sarajevo, not in Croatia? As far as he said, it was only restored in Varazdin. Croatia is important to us, not BiH. BiH is a foreign country for us, and otherwise the HRT programme is indistinguishable, we only watch it when we have to. I don't look at HRT anymore, but ask them if there's any more church contents possible because there are few in the sarcasm fences. Who's watching them in Internet times? The misery and misery of journalism, abolish the subscription because these programs don't deserve 10 kuna subscriptions. At your presentation to the principal one user wrote, that's what praise me to my mouth when no one else's. HDZ spokesman, that's HRT. Not only do you need to cancel the subscription, but they need to pay people who see it voluntarily. There's nothing to look at here anymore, about the news that I'm not talking about, the HDZ bulletin. I can't remember the last time I watched HRT, not a single normal and interesting show, and for these new leaders, not to mention. Good morning, Croatia used to be my favorite show, and now it sucks. I haven't seen HRT for a long time, or a new TV or RTL of these I've erased from memory that at least I can get out of subscription. But I don't think there's anything for me for 20 years or so. I'm not looking at it at all because the program is nothing. Please, if you can advise me on how to get rid of their idiotic subscription because I'm neither watching nor listening, and I don't want to pay for it anymore. Thank you. It's a shame for HRT to have strangers handing over national football championships and national teams. Home series nothing, God help me, I'm avoiding watching. I haven't watched the HRT program in a long time, except for HRT when the assembly is in session. Everyone who was rolling went to other TV houses and I follow them there. It could be a more interesting program with several different contents, this user is very polite to you. They're so good that most people don't even watch them, and if you want to follow the news without censorship, bypass them at a wide port. Local radio stations have a program that comes down to bad music, mass advertising, unprofessional news and a ton of religion, they can completely change the name of the Voice of the Concila, the exception are a couple of Radio Dubrovnik shows, the Maritime Evening and Ko Women. I'm sure they're the same as HDZ, they're HDZ, they're from lies of manipulation, clericalism, promotion of the constitution, buying their emissions from foreigners, mostly HDZ images and words. First and foremost, she did not deserve the name HRT because she is a purely party, artificial television, which connects with citizens a mandatory subscription or tax to be unfortunately. Another comment so good, it's inconspicuous. I don't watch HT, reruns, religious shows, defense shows, spiritual calls, I don't care. I haven't watched the diary since Zoran Spray left, for example, for 5 days, it's best to see how this TV collapsed and how it came from an extremely interesting and constructive show that 5 days is anemic and miserable show. Stankovic felt exactly when he lost Galic. I look at Potter and Voice. HRT key in the lock of a clean servant of the corrupt HDZ regime. I rarely watch HRT collapse to the lowest branches, they are biased, always the political party in power has the biggest installation, at the time Zoran Sprajic's diary was their most watched, the best personnel have gone, the program is unsightly and they still have the nerve to ask for overpayments by those who look at them by choice, and I can freely lift HRT so I can't watch it. Listen to the voice of Mr. Bačić's people, listen how dissatisfied they are, how angry they are at you, and I told you once, and I'll tell you again. You can do whatever you want right now, but you won't be able to do it as long as you want. Everyone's time will come, so your time will come for you and your flocks, just make sure that the citizens come for you with masquerade and pitchforks, they sound so angry with you. People see you chasing journalists who talk and write about your dirt, people see you and your flocks messing with their money, they're mad at you. That's why you have a choice to line up on your own or you'll be put in order when your political protectors who, I don't know if you've noticed for months don't break up with the effort to cover your pigs and go to greener pastures. In order you will certainly not bring the street, Croatia is not such a country, but people are angry with you. Still, don't be surprised if you're brought into line by some other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185620	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and We Change Croatia, and during the time will be shared by the respected representative Sabolek and the esteemed representative Lovrinović. First of all, the respected representative of Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185621	Thank you, Chairman. Your fee should be lifted, we'll do it in the first 5 minutes of power. The HRT unfortunately serves as a service to the government, not to the citizens. HRT is no longer a public service, nor an informative service because its purely politically-set leadership has turned HRT into a government service, and they have made it impossible for journalists to deal with their profession because imposed attitudes are not their will. They put them in an unfavourable position that falls under censorship and inability to act fairly in their profession. So again, the question arises, are the authorities aware that they are the only ones responsible for the state of affairs in the country? It is crystal clear that they must allow journalists to professionally practice their work and remove their fingers from media editing. It's systemically in 30 years. The destruction of HRT and the left and right were ruthlessly destroying it, abolishing all political emissions and eventually bringing HRT to such branches that all commercial televisions are stronger. On HRT there are great people you defend work, your policy destroys all able people in the Republic of Croatia, the quality of the programme compared to the money that citizens pay is disastrously bad, employees' salaries are low, money is drawn through private production and contracts with external associates. The central information show is probably the worst of all TV houses, how is that possible with the budget at your disposal? Finally stop harassing and the pensioners with your errands. HRT receives more than a billion kuna annually through the mandatory subscription of all Croatian citizens to inform citizens professionally and objectively. However, we were already able to see censorship on HRT on several occasions, and we witnessed cases being punished for bringing the truth before the elections, all elections, the HRT functioned through its shows as an extended hand of HDZ completely uncritically conveying the content of other candidates and parties artificially promoting some parties and people. It was interesting to hear and see the report by German journalist Grit Eggerichs who came to work on HRT for several weeks with the intention to deal with environmental issues. But during her stay on HRT she realized that Croatian public service itself is an interesting topic, the Eggerichs remained shocked by the way they work on HRT, and censorship that governs there. The report describes the current way of working on HRT, there is no coordination among different editorials, there are no editorial colleges, only protocol news about what the government, the presidents, journalists are being demoted to explore interesting topics, etc. Among other journalists, the government's official agenda is an identical agenda, the editor-in-chief's agenda, adds that leading people on HRT are most important not to anger the ruling. It remained as many ruling parties as have so much influence on the HRT programme if it is a public service paid by all citizens. The Republic of Croatia is described as a small country, smaller than Bavaria, where there are fewer and fewer people, in which they do not wish to remain unfortunately or migrants. Germany's journalist shocks that HRT is constantly reporting a war that ended two decades ago. It is unimaginable that ordinary people are asked to think only if their statements can further confirm what the ruling politicians say. The HRT atmosphere is such that HDZ politicians no longer have to call and intervene if they do not like public service reporting because the work is done by editors for them. Croatian journalists may have problems with their bosses if politicians dare to question anything at all, according to a report containing some Croatian journalists whose German journalist had to guarantee anonymity in order to be willing to speak at all. The journalist also marveled at the behaviour of Croatian ministers towards journalists, one of the topics she wanted to process was the LNG terminal in Krk, and tried to reach a statement by the Minister of the Environment, even travelled to Krk to reach a minister who then promised to give the interview next week, after 8 days she received an e-mail from his team saying that the minister still had no time for her, which shocked her naturally because in Germany ministers kept their promises and talked to reporters. The report also describes how no relevant information can be obtained from the Ministry of the Environment despite numerous queries and reminders. The German journalist also tried to get statements from the leading HRT people, but they did not want to talk to her, the report concludes with the conclusion that the HRT is ruled by the atmosphere as in North Korea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185622	Thank you. The next club, or follow-up, will continue to be a respected representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185623	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the esteemed representatives of HRT, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, and I especially welcome you, the esteemed citizens who follow us on the subject of today's meeting of our CROMAC business reports for 2016, '17. And in '18, you see the first elemental question why the 2016 report wasn't discussed, and then '17, why it wasn't discussed before, but that's how you see it, here today we're going to discuss this report from 2016, but there's another report from 2016. which I suppose will never be while, while this ruling coalition is under discussion, and this is the report of the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, and that report hides within itself, hides the story of the currency-free exchanges that have been lurked and messed with in the case of Agrokor you see, and here I am again talking to you about it, but a lot of things that I have spoken about in front of the Party We change Croatia, and above all the citizens who chose me here, did not see, nor was it missed through the ether of HRT, I don't know whether this is being released now, but I'm not going to talk here, take one ideological approach to HRT, this, what let's just see a little bit of the business of HRT because we change Croatia want to solve those key problems, how people can live, how to improve the standard, how to allow pensioners to get bigger pensions, better health care, etc., etc. Here's no point in me going back to 2016, '17, '18. I focused on this latest report from 2018. I see in the report that HRT lost 440 million kuna in 2018. And the question arises, where did all these losses come from, they were about 550 million? So this is one chronic loser, actually Croatian television is a chronic loser and a company, a company that is practically a grave patient. The long-term liabilities to banks amounted to 193 million kuna and short-term bank loans at the end of 2018 still amounted to HRK 96 million, so almost 300 million have loans. Watch out, I repeat another 300 million kuna credits. The size of their balance sheet is about a billion and 400 million kuna, of which about a billion, 200 million kuna comes from fees and from TV subscription to our citizens. So the question arises, dear citizens, if we're paying this company about a billion kunas a year, so how did they get another 300 million kuna credits? Why? Isn't this enough for them from the fee? Don't they sell advertising? Don't they have other donations to increase their revenues on the market? Another information, outstanding tax liabilities and contributions at the end of 2018 amounted to HRK 34 million. So that's the problem. Now, what is interesting is the following: salaries and other remuneration of employees amounted to around 435 million kuna, which accounts for 31% of total expenditure, and it worked there at the end of 2018. 2.780 workers means it is one of the largest companies in the Republic of Croatia. But HRT is not a normal company, it produces a program, what is intellectual, spiritual, informative, it can heal the nation with its program, and it can make it sick, it can produce optimism, and it can create pessimism and fear. It can serve, it can be pluralistic, democratic, but it can be party television. She can develop their journalists creativity, freedom of expression, and she can have cops in her organisational scheme that no one officially knows about. White books don't write there like they used to, but they do, they exist. You know who can perform and who can't. But let's get some more on the financial reports. The current liquidity coefficient, on HRT at the time was 0.76, and we know that minimum should be 2, so the company is in trouble. The financial stability coefficient, which is 1.13 and should be below 1, means that long-term assets are financed from short-term sources. The rest, watch out, other external costs amounted to 435 million kuna in that year, out of which rent and rent 130 million kuna, and maintenance services, watch out for 45 million kuna maintenance services. So now I'm asking you fellow citizens in such a large plant of 2,780 workers so isn't there enough quality people, specialists, to cut these costs drastically? So these are real issues that are being asked, so we can say that the financial total business of HRT is actually bad, it's been going on for years, there's too many employees, there's a bad structure of employees where about 40% of the employees of the SS. So, I repeat, HRT is a difficult patient and needs urgent and integrated restructuring, integrated. And you know when the restructuring process will begin? After the next parliamentary elections, because now there is no way. But you see what's interesting here is what to say. Now let's go to the revenue side, as much as 87% of the income comes from state incentives, which has forced citizens to pay 80 kuna a month, that's HRT's right to charge us 80 per month no matter what the program is. I said that about a billion and 200 million kunas were collected each year, and in 2018, about 70 million kunas were not charged in TV subscribers, and then it entered the first warning procedure, and after that. So the revenues from the market, and these are ads and sold TV content are 13%, that's too small, so 13% is from the market, and 87% of us, of us, is not that from the state, it's from us. In this sense, the following should be said, HRT Croatian Radio Television is one of the largest producers of blocked citizens, one of the biggest manufacturers of the performances due to unpaid TV subscriptions. Annuals are sent from that house on two occasions, half-year-olds up to 100,000 tours. In that sense, these are very clear data, and they speak very clearly about what it is and what problems we are facing here. Large loans to banks they create the situation next, I said about 300 million kuna are obligations, HRT debts to banks. Well, now we understand why banks can't be criticized on HRT, why you see yourself there, only they show up there when they're talking about economics, you know who shows up the most, everything with can be measured, the main economists, and most often those banks to which HRT is owed. You see, you see what that is, it's actually clientelism and corruption I can't call it otherwise. So it is there and for Adiko it is Hypo bank they brought the Swiss, now the bank has changed its name, let's say from there called Hrvojo Stojic, Zdeslav Shantic from another bank, and then when it is a little more complicated Velimira Šonju he works 20 years for the Croatian Banks' Association. The economic show cannot pass without Damir Novotny, and from Saša Cvetojevic entrepreneurship, and your editor Željko Kardum he knows exactly who to call, right. Dear citizens, I don't like to mention names and I'm sick of it, but believe me when I started reading this, then you know we don't have any, we can't play association anymore, and that way. But what do these people do when they get on TV? Those of us who discover the real state of things in the Croatian economy, banking, around blocked, completed, around the EUR, around the future of the EU, they call us ignorant or simply dissident. And you know what shows look like when they invite us to the Open and that, then if they're four guests, 3 have to be against this 1 that's out of opposition or not responding to those who are in power. And it's suggested to the viewer then, that this one you really see in the minority is that he's wrong. So, we have serious problems, as the problem is the bad financial situation, the bad business, the bigger the problem is this kind of approach to informing Croatian citizens, there are no important issues, there are no serious issues about the future of the EU, about the EUR, about Brexit, about health care, about the second pension pillar, pension system reform, about pensioners, about their situation. You can say that in a minute, so what you're talking about, so look how many minutes we are, but that means everything that's prepared, what needs to be heard. What are our solutions? We from the party Change Croatia like to criticise, see the arguments, but we have solutions. If one billion kunas pay citizens to HRT, do you know that there are no citizens on the programming board or on the supervisory board. There are 11 members on the programming board, 9 of them out of here you understand, and they come by the political key, and you dear citizens know that they don't represent you, we, two come, 9 plus 2 are journalists from HRT TV, but obviously they have to play the same flute as they say. There are five members in the Supervisory Board, four of them coming back from the assembly, and one of the HRTs, no citizens again, no civil society associations, no nobody, no public, you see. And so I'm going to end up, so HRT is already mature and ready for a thorough restructuring and programming and financial, we don't need party television, we don't need an ideological programme, we need quality information, impartially with a lot of, a lot of scientists we have, experts from various areas that can't come there and dear citizens change this unsustainable situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185624	Thank you very much. If we don't interrupt our fellow Scybol, and so, given that a vote has actually been announced in advance at 12 o'clock, I'm going to give a break by 12 o'clock, and then I'm asking this club president to invite these members to be here so that we can hold a vote at 12 o'clock and then continue to work. Here, then we'll give it a break by 12 o'clock. It's 11:00.55. Now we'd like to continue to discuss, about our united three points, so I'm going to ask that, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young People, the Honorable Representative of Marin Škibola, here you go. You may begin Mr. Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185626	Well, here I am looking to get this...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185627	Hold on, hold on, hold on. Please, please, Mr. Schibol must speak, please, please, please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185628	Thank you so much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. As far as the HRT report is concerned, we have this joint debate today on HRT reports, meaning 2016, 2017 and 2018. The problem is that in 2020, we have a 2016 report to discuss. As for HRT, there is much debate in the public that politics has too much influence on HRT's editorial policy. And it's never good for public television to become propaganda material in the hands of the authorities, however, absolutely throw policy out of public television, it's extremely difficult because politics de facto and sets the leadership of public television, but these people who are set up should be aware of the responsibilities they have and should be aware of their work, means not only to look at being loyal to those who have set them up but rather to be loyal to citizens first because this championship public service. As far as the media space in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, most of the media space in the Republic of Croatia has taken over foreign capital. It is often attacked by HRT, and it is called that HRT is under great political influence and I personally think that it has a lot of political influence on HRT's editorial policy, however, private media, private television, is not something that is much more independent than it seems. So there's also interest in private capital that calculates the same thing that's going to be released into the ether and what it's going to be like for whom it's going to be propaganda. For example. I have many social problems that have been censored in the Republic of Croatia, I have dealt with the problems of Raiffeisen cooperatives, and then the paid PR Mages prevented a larger media affair that should have been in different ways, we have seen the same thing as the RBA Bank asked the PR agencies to influence the Constitutional Court. So this media blizzard in the Republic of Croatia is really huge and the question arises from which the capital of the funding of certain media is coming, according to this, is the policy of the media. Croatia introduces the euro, so we are in the process of implementing the euro, we have joined the ERM II Course Mechanism, i.e. We submitted the request, the HRT was not specifically discussing whether the euro is good for Croatia or not. So we don't have any bigger public debates and who should organise this public debate than HRT? HRT organises this in a way that calls for certain banking analysts paid by banks and who have a direct interest in some policy and then they preach that the euro is good for the Republic of Croatia, etc. He can be good for the Republic of Croatia, I will not dispute it now but what I ask of you as HRT, that you simply give an opportunity and a critical attitude, means that the ratio is equal, means that this debate is opened and that it is certainly more intense because we do not currently have an intensive debate on such an important change for Croatian society and Croatian system. So it's about a historic change, a change of currency that may never come back again when we change it. Also, as regards the media in the Republic of Croatia, e.g. When you organize a press conference in the Croatian Parliament, then rarely when a crowd of media comes to you, there comes only a few media, if it's a topic that's important, if it's a subject that's meaningful, if it's a topic that's not sensational and that doesn't get that far into those world-class issues, it's hard for the media to come to you. But when it comes to worldly topics, when it comes to some trivial issues, when it comes to some conflicts, incidents, and that's what the media is about, and normally, then certain politicians are taking it and doing these incidents because it's the only way that they can get into expression. As far as the presidential election is concerned, I must also look back at the face-to-face it was. To me, these questions that were being asked, a lot of people were unhappy with the very questions that went towards presidential candidates, there were questions trivial and peripheral, e.g. Tito or Tudjman. So why ask presidential candidates such questions and focus the public on these irrelevant things, means in the 21st century you are now asking the presidential candidates Tito or Tudjman and they should now in 30 seconds or I don't know how long they had, explaining their opinions on these historical figures. I mean, what's that for? A lot of world-famous questions. All this does not contribute to the development of democracy, does not contribute to the development of political education and political thoughts of citizens but does exactly the opposite, works on disinformation, works on indoctrination, works on triviality and then we have uninformed people and not only that they are uninformed but indicators, indicators suggest that people actually want to go to elections. We have the lowest turnout in the history elections and the question of how many people will go to these next parliamentary elections, so it's a big problem of the media, not only of the HRT, but of all the media, but here I'm talking to you now because you have this most important priority role because you're funding from the state budget, citizens are paying the HRT subscription, so you really should have the public interest in the first place. Also transferring discussions in the Croatian Parliament, yesterday we had a report from the State's Attorney's Office, and this may be the most important topic currently in the Republic of Croatia, meaning, the judiciary, monetary policy and such things, these are, these are the most important topics currently in Croatia, and these topics are ignored, so, you may have transferred only one tenth of that debate, was here the attorney general, the MPs were asking questions that were in place, and the citizens, it was, it was a subject of public interest, so the citizens were interested in watching it. But they couldn't watch it. Therefore, my suggestion to you is to assess which topics are of great public interest, and the state's attorney's office was a subject of great public interest, and then that for these topics, to transfer them in full, and not to reduce them, means to fully convey this debate even if it was all day, let it be all day. But these are important topics that interest Croatian citizens and should not, there should not be reduced, and there should not be any County panorama more important than these important topics. There was also the governor of the central bank here, and then it wasn't much of a transfer, and so on, and so on. But what I have to tell you, I don't mind having HRT meet its legal and contractual obligations through external production, especially through one-time cooperation in the production of entertainment and documentary content. However, there is a rational justification and an explanation for the change in HRT policy, which has resulted in a rapid increase in the number of shows in the regular HRT programme, which are left to the external production although they can be done in the house, means I am interested in the reason why it goes so much towards this external production, because in this report, it is a financial report, but I did not see that you explain the reasons for changing certain emissions from one programme to another programme, meaning in these reports you need to focus more on it, because there are many information emissions, important emissions, political emissions, such as Labyrinth, you have transferred from HRT 1 to HRT 4, and not only Labyrinth, there is Croatia live, which I have informed myself, and there are some other shows that I will now indicate, but there is no logical explanation in the report why it has happened, and I believe that you do not even mention it, and that you are not even mention it. That's not good. You must simply explain these changes, policy changes, and change in the direction of HRT. Here means the first HRT program was cleaned from the information shows in which the promotion was banned, so here it is, maybe these are the reasons, Labyrinth was transferred to HRT 4, Global has been transferred to HRT 4, the first program is removed live, the first program is cleaned from in house shows, and slots are passed on to external productions. The information show Croatia live replaced by the word "brain show" In our home, and the price and one show would be 26 thousand kuna, then we have Ivica Gizela's Tourist Class transferred from HRT 4 and replaced by external production Destination, means a description of the panel's discussion of tourism, and now it's not mean, it's not very well done, so it's a question of why these shows were all transferred to HRT 4, and the citizens were interested, and they had great ratings, so if it was your purpose to put on the first programme and to put on some fun shows, and then put on commercials to make some profits, you're simply missing, because the purpose of public television is not really important to the public and you have a lot of money, and that's not where you concentrate so much on profit, but the purpose of public television should be the citizens's service, means of information that you're really the most common, that you're not really the most important, because you'll have a lot of the HRT, because you're not really got more money, because you's more money and you's more money, because you's more money, because you's more money, because you's more money, you's more money, because you's not the money, because you's not the money, because you's not the money, because you's you's not the money, you's more money, because you's you's not the money, you's not the money, you's the money, because you's the money, you's not the money, you's not the money, you's and you's you's you's not the money, you's not the money, you's not the money. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185629	Thank you, too. It's all right, now it's Mr. Miro Bulj who will have his own personal individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185630	Thank you very much. The Croatian report, Croatian Radio Television in three years, speaks about the situation, and financially, mostly financially, but when we talk about Croatian public television, then we need to talk about public service, service, and what is happening in it, and the broader view. In democratic societies, public television raises key issues for life, so it should be in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, what is important and what is significant to our citizens, not taking account of anyone, either for the authorities, or for the opposition, independently and well-founded and without pressure on the employees within it. Mostly journalists, press freedoms to be preserved and thus to profile this public change. that the public interest is above the party's interest and above the interest of the policies that rule is that any censorship in the public service does not leave i.e. It has a bad impact on democracy and on what public service is needed for. It seems to me to the director that fear prevails in your house with journalists, there is too much pressure on journalists, not only on political pressure in certain censorships, but on the subject of political pressure, which is important for the lives of our citizens, and we have emissions that have meant such as Croatia live and many of the problems of our citizens, mostly on the edge of existence, I see not a single to-day reason except for the political reason why something is seen, something that is important for the lives of our citizens, I repeat, those who have been on the edge, who have been opening the topic on all issues or on the edge of health services or have not been on the edge of poverty, and in the Republic of Croatia, but in, in, and in larger cities like Zagreb, we have a number of problems that show. I can't even figure out today why this show was shut down, maybe it's my personal perception as a viewer who used to watch it before I was a parliamentary representative, that this show in the afternoon and solved and encouraged and the institutions to solve these problems. Which is why I don't know, but if the fear in the house is probably a political reason, if there's fear in the house in HRT that's big, which is huge, then it's a message to the press. If HRT, if you are often the director of the press and the stalker of journalists such as Sanja Mikleusčević Pavić, Hrvoje Zovko, you have sued Sanju for 50,000,00 kn, filed a lawsuit, and for Mr. Zovka you seem to me 200,000,00 kn, I don't think it's a good message regardless of the worldview, no matter what, but the fact is that certain things have been conveyed truthfully, crediblely, i.e. They're like journalists their attitude. Therefore, it seems to me that there is too much fear of those who would have to pass on information, you have created too much fear that a leader from a political opposition is calling or an opponent who is opening a certain topic is simply too much censorship, if you hit journalists like that, you are the code, you are this state lawyer, and not the director, it is not a good message to the press, and you know that it is not a good message, although I am not a member of the competent body. The committee responsible when it was being discussed, it's terriblely bad messages to the press and believe me that journalists feel fear in your house and that's why we have a much worse program, the worst, because of the fear of the worst program, is simply you code them just call the MPs from the majority on HTV 4, and call that they are advertised, that they are saying what is nice and drinkable to the current leadership regardless of who it is, here you wouldn't be able to show whether these are in power or they are, but it's not good for public change. We have countless topics on the order of the Republic of Croatia which are of public interest to the Republic of Croatia. I was interested, and in the replica I asked you, I'm interested in the wealth that HTV has, because then other televisions were not, we're talking about homeland war and archival structure, because these are the cameramen who risked their lives, some have lost their lives, and if it wasn't for those people who were wearing cameras instead of guns, I believe that today this one would be much harder to fight for free RH and it must be our gold, our jewel for documentary films, series, I don't know everything that can be used, but it should be protected in the best possible way, not that this one, along with the profession and how much information I have that was launched a project to preserve that material in 2017 on the launch of a project pride of homeland, a collection of war content where it was, it was all past your legal service, but you don't want to sign it. Which is why I don't put that archive, save that archive, and I even have some information that a lot of it went down, ended up in garbage cans, but that's our gold is a country war, and these people don't deserve from Mr. Lederer who gave his life as a war cameraman of many of those like Peter Malbaša his, journalist, war cameraman, my Signan who gave an immeasurable pain with his camera. So Otto was a picture that was sent into the world and it would have simply been some sort of proposal that made you not want to sign it and why it didn't want to be saved, I would like you to explain it a little more in detail if it was a serious, serious issue for me, and in many other stations, TV houses that weren't at all, either there or in private archives there are these, they went whether, they came out to you these materials that were very important from that period. I'd like you to tell me about this thing if it's too bad if any of it is destroyed and thrown into the trash can, although we have certain journalists who have testified about the negligence and dishappiness of the archives, people who have dealt with it. Here's one very important question for me to keep that archive and to discuss it as well as possible, and to keep it with what's even your legal service, as far as I have the information, which has approved this kind of decision that you should sign, so if you can take a wider, wider knowledge, you know, where there are even bodies of activity, goals that would cover a team to throw into one place this very important period of the Homeland War, and that's what I'd like you to tell me about it. Public interest, I would once again ask you colleagues and colleagues to be careful with HRT, only because we all have to agree with journalists, secularly and ideologically, in terms of the economy, that we must point out that they must not be persecuted by the director because of spoken words and statements, and this is the director, you have done this and it is not good, this has been pointed out by all the world associations of journalists, associations, associations not only Croatian, but also European and global. We must not create a dictatorship that was in one mind. We need to go much wider, we need to look at the public interest of every area of Croatia, evicted Croatia, so we need this public service, it must serve to develop democracy, and it cannot be a house of fear. HTV must not be a house of fear of journalists and employees and you have made this move where you have filed lawsuits in the style of the worst stalker as a director who would have to deal with that big house, in fact you have stopped the development of thought. I mean, you've stopped the development that people think with their heads and simply by the directive people will either work or they will leave, so we have that the journalists who have jumped out, simply or go to other houses and that's not good, public interest above all. Here, public interest above all else and HTV must not be a house of fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185631	Time, Mr. Bull, thank you. You have a replica, however, so you will be able to continue during your thoughts, Mr. Križanić has asked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, there's been a lot of talk today about paying for the payment of HRT, I haven't been able to ask the principal about it, so I'm asking you what you think about paying for a subscription in all the cars owned by a company that owns a company that has 10-ac, 50-ac cars, any small, any large trucks, and they're all paying for a full price subscription, it's a terrible parafiscal imposition, but there's another thing that I've personally experienced and that's not normal, so I want the principal to hear it, that its incasators are entering the courtyards of the company, when cowboys intercept the vehicles, they're looking for a warrant because they have records in the registration, they're jumping cars and they're asking them if these individual radio devices are registered, whether they're paying the fees. I'm against it personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185633	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185634	Thank you very much. I thought I'd talk about it but there wasn't enough time, I think this director was saying that he was going to cut down on these overpayments and go to the suspension as little as possible, find other payment models and no sheriff's stopping the vehicle and counting how many radios there are, what is the burden for both entrepreneurs and natural and legal persons, and especially if you give people an open hand to catch them in the parking lot or in front of the house to see if they have radio recorders in each vehicle. I mean that sheriffing from Central, from HTV is too much pressure on everyone and the promise made by this director, he didn't keep it, and you have to keep it in mind, he didn't cut it, and that's what he promised. I'm going to go towards an end, looking for a new model of HTV financing. So he didn't do anything about it, and I agree with you that we should move towards it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185635	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Angel uncle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185636	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, director of HRT. First of all, I would like to thank you for correcting the injustice committed during the former administration, which is that the Center for HRT Study Varazdin-Chakovec has been moved to Čakovec. It was crazy for me to move HRT from its space in Varazdin to Čakovec where it is currently rented. So he doesn't even have his own space up there. In a conversation with you over the past year, two, we have come to one solution which is that the county has secured space, equipped and this year the broadcast has started or was to start from Varazdin, but I still don't think it's fulfilled by the end, it was agreed that the county will also equip the space and that you will literally appoint the person who will work in this correspondence in Varazdin. I'm asking you to do it all the way and know exactly who the HTV reporter in Varazdin is. We weren't satisfied with the previous scheme for a few reasons, so I think it would be nice for me to introduce you here. It is inconceivable for me that in the municipality of Vinica, space, monument for the first Croatian president is being built and built in the town of Vinica and that there is only one camera for the opening of the HTV. The other TV houses, the media, the portals were there, until yours was no one. Now what do I think that's important? Well, in the municipality of Vinica, the first forces were formed still under the auspices of the MUP to defend our homeland. There was also a stationed 5th Battalion 1A Brigade Tigers, which later turned into a legendary 7th Guard Brigade and that the discovery of monuments to the first Croatian president in Vinica, which is the only monument north of Zagreb that was discovered to the first Croatian president has no camera of HTV, I find it inappropriate. Also last year, the Municipality of Visko reported with the initiative Croatian and then the European tree of the year. What's this about? In 1241, during the break-in of Tatar, King Bela IV Arpadovic retreated towards the Adriatic, I think we all know that, right, the one who understands history. A legend bound up by my district of Kalnik, St. Petar Orehovec, Gornji Rijeka, says Highly that for a time the king was hiding in the fortress of Kalnik and that the peasants of the grassland villages fed him with plums. When the threat of 1242 passed, to a little economic recovery, he raised the earth to his golden bulls at the time, giving the status of a free city, and in the town of Visno as a tree of peace planted a lip called Belina Lipa. For me, it's inappropriate for 777 years of our history not to get one single second on HRT. And I don't think it's a good relationship to small rural areas. Also, I'm sure you're not familiar because if you were, you'd certainly intervene, say, the Center Čakovec – Varazdin has 20 and some employees and I'm sure you're not with the fact that 4/5 employees signed a petition to violate their labour rights. She intervened in the work inspection and reached her conclusion, filed a misdemeanor report, and this is the next one. So the employees pointed out irregularities in the area of working relations with the employer at the Centre of Čakovec and Varazdin regarding the schedule of working time and working time records, the failure to pay an increased salary based on overtime, the determination of alertness or duty, and the disabling of workers from the use of daily and weekly holidays. Literally, the work inspection found that the Center of Čakovec – Varazdin violates people's constitutional rights. And now I'm asking the question that in one single ministry, it happens that 4/5 employees complain, sign a petition, a work inspection determines and confirms their allegations as to how long would the minister remain a minister? I guess not another second. Now, since I'm sure you weren't familiar with this case, so I had a need to bring you out here in the Croatian Parliament to get to know each other, the question arises whether and what you will do on this particular case and, of course, in those cases of inappropriate detours of local issues for the Varazdin County area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185637	Thank you, too. Mr. Križanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Strick, you spoke of us as a difficult subject, of moving HRT to Čakovec, or of correspondence in Čakovec, and of not using the already built building that was in Varazdin, but of paying rent in Čakovec. My question is whether it is not normal and now that correspondence is being done in Čakovec or Varazdin new that the building was not asked by the state of Croatia to adapt the building, to make correspondence in Varazdin and for the whole region. This is how we can always behave and anyone who doesn't have to earn their money but has a HRT subscription, if Croatian television were on the market then it would certainly not behave differently would not pay expensive rent rather than take advantage of their building. Then there would certainly be more national sports on television, not that we must seek Croatian TV on some other channels in cable and still have to pay additionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185639	Answer, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185640	Thank you. Well, my colleague Križanić, during the former director of Radman on HRT, was more abnormal than normal and of course this is not normal for you to have your property, your land, to build a building on that land and you just need to equip it and instead of equiping it you would rather go to someone else's space for rent. That's insane. It was obviously only Radman's normal SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185641	The second and last replica, Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185642	Dear counterpart Križanić, my replica goes to a part of which you did not point out so much in your presentation, and regarding sports monitoring, in particular Croatian teams in any sport on HRT, and I think it is totally unacceptable that the HRT to which we all pay our subscription together is not followed by all our teams. I think it would be a minimum of something that television would have to find money in its budget, and ultimately these are events that can be very commercially used because it's not normal for one commercial television without a subscription to buy the right to, say, transfer the handball games of our team, and that HTV doesn't do the same, I think, in other sports, that we should follow not only the team but also the performances of our clubs in international competitions, and there are some sports where our clubs don't participate at all, and HRT transfers them, and I believe and pays.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185643	Thank you. Mr. Uncle's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185644	Comrade Felak, of course you would, I'm sure we're all proud of the success of each of our athletes, but the same for every citizen not only in the country but in the world. We're all proud to see the stands full of red white cubes, when we win with how small a country we are first, second, third places, when the whole world looks at us and our athletes. Of course it's a matter of pride and national identity, and I'm sure HTV is doing everything in their power to make as many of these transfers as possible. But not only when we talk about competitions of international character, so there are lots of interesting sports competitions and local character, there are also lots of talent at local small levels, but you just need to be a little more present on the ground, help them and give them wind in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185645	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Although it is common to discuss under the agenda of the HRT Business Report usually involves a financial report which is equally of course important, it is much more important to discuss the work of HRT which involves all the obligations that Croatian citizens expect from public television, especially for us parliamentary representatives, the realisation of the obligations arising from the contract between the Government and the HRT. For me, as representatives of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it is particularly important that HRT treats topics that are of interest to Croats outside BiH. At first, I would like to say that HRT as public television is necessary for the Republic of Croatia and for all of us and the Parliament, and the Government and HRT need to do everything to best respond to their obligations as public television in a way that represents all the complexity and diversity of Croatian society. This should also not interfere with the mind that outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia another almost equally numerous Croatia is living outside the homeland, so when it comes to programmes, but also about financing production of programmes and broadcasting, this fact must be respected by both HRT and all institutions of the Republic of Croatia, including certain critical observations. I would like to make it clear that significant progress has been made in the last three years when it comes to informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So on 1 January 2018, HRT launched an international television channel, the HRT International, intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the international public. In addition to the news, documentary shows "We Discover Croatia", "Croatia is my choice" have been broadcast to which the fate of Croatian emigrants, returnees and foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been portraited. The documentaries were scheduled to follow historical links between the Republic of Croatia and the world and record the value of Croatian cultural heritage, specialized emissions for Croatian minorities "Vlas domina" i.e. for the Croatian people in BiH "View over the Border" so Croats in BiH. Since October 2018 a new show is therefore dedicated to Croatians outside the country, topics of different content have been processed. The Croatian Information Portal for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is a specialized portal intended to inform Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is also known about this, the director also recently reported that HRT correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar in BiH has been reopened. However, when we talk about informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia then it is always important to remember what these are obligations arising from the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as from the Government and the HRT contracts. And now I'd like to say in a way that might be different. The first problem I notice about informing Croats or informative Croatian emissions related to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is a specific ghettoisation of programmes and content for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. What's this about? I believe you will agree that most of these shows, their format, the channels on which they are broadcast are more intended to inform Croats outside the Republic of Croatia about what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, but as Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be informed about everything that is happening in the Republic of Croatia as well as the problems of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these contents should be more broadcast on channels in the Republic of Croatia in appropriate terms for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia so that they can see them so as to say the components of the Croatian National Corps to each other better get to know each other. When it comes to Croats in BiH, I will at first tell why we Croats in BiH need HRT. Well, because BiH Croats, unlike the other two constituent nations, have no public service. Serbs have RTS in Banja Luka, Bosniaks so-called Federal TV in Sarajevo, and more or less BHRT, which is designed as some state-owned TV service, therefore Croats mostly watch HRT and then ignore them. I'll tell you I've been in politics in BiH for a long time, and believe me, my fellow citizens in BiH have noticed my political action based on my four and five years in the Assembly than in 15 years in BiH. This illustrates how many Croats in BiH expect HRT and how much attention they pay to HRT. What I want to say here and let no one be offended, my perception is that they are absolutely and generally ignoring topics, especially those about the political position of the Croatian people in BiH in information and thematic shows, we are talking about informative and thematic emissions that are being informed about and for the Republic. Often they can hear from ordinary people, so more of those close media outlets that these, too, these correspondences that are open in BiH, are somehow more like an alibi for projects, to satisfy the form, so contracts between the government and the HRT, rather than actually contribute to some kind of information. As I said, therefore, these correspondence was launched both in Mostar and Sarajevo, but what is it, how do these correspondence work? So, in the rented space in Sarajevo, there are two people without cameras and cameras, so it is no wonder that there is no relevant information from Sarajevo where state institutions are located and where decisions are mostly made, where they are the most international representatives. The material equipment of correspondence in Mostar is also not adequate, one vehicle is available and if I go to one task no longer on the other, without saying that we do not have some type of study, similar to what people from Sibenik, Split, etc. When it comes to the show, so look across the border, editorials and journalists, called interlocutors, etc. They make a great effort to process the subject and then in a few days, so this show broadcasts to HRT 4 in 20 minutes before midnight. Who in BiH will now wait 20 minutes before midnight to watch the half hour show, and then re-replayed again after a week in the afternoon on the 1st HRT programme when most of these topics that have been processed... They may not be current anymore. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to reporting HS, I must particularly express my dissatisfaction, so there was here a year ago and there was something all day debate on the Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH, which I presented on behalf of the promoter, Foreign Minister Marija Burić Pejcinović, before the government there was, debated, but on HRT, it was not worthy of this day or for the Open, and not to say that no one was worthy here from journalists to ask what we are talking about today, etc. It is a similar thing, here twice in the last year discussed reports from the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, again not a word, not in the central information shows, nor to say any question here in the assembly of parliamentary rapporteurs, and then of course the transfer was running as well as this running probably someone looked at it, someone was not, interrupted, so very often by emerald discussions on some to say so by channels. So, not to say that on occasions where there is an opportunity to talk seriously about, about the HRT programme, especially for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, such as. Meetings of the Government Council for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and I will only mention, therefore, a meeting of the Government's advice in Varazdin, so at the end of last year when my colleague, dear colleague Raguž, so very well-intentioned, very constructively makes certain remarks and suggestions, and when the HRT representative says we are not here to meet the wishes and greetings of the listeners, so we are not listeners, we present here, we represent the owner, so the Assembly, and through him to say so to the citizens of the Republic. And in the end, I don't know if there's gonna be a chance here to discuss, so I know about the program council's report in '17. is only voted, etc., I would like to say that the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which I am chairing, strongly supports greater responsibility, so the programming council in the creation of the programme policy, so if I have to make the necessary changes to say so to the Law on HRT, which will give the programme council a greater role in creating a programme policy because the programme council is the only link between the public, between the parliaments and this, therefore, the creators Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Mr. Ljubic time, time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185647	You will, you will have replicas, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185648	Thank you, Vice President HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185649	No, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185650	My colleague Ljubic, I see that you have spoken more about television, which is actually broadcast to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially BiH. Of course, I'm not happy about it myself, but here's how much we know that 10 million Euros is going away for that TV, 6 million goes to a pay repeater, but that's a minimum of 4 billion kuna spent on television. The second thing, the terms in half 12, 25 to 12 are totally thrown away terms that no one is watching, of course they have those who are still in Australia and the rest, they can support it, but for the Croats of BiH should be at 9-10 hours, hitting some times for people to see, after all the cameras are not expensive, they should walk around BiH, film our situation in BiH Croatian so that we can see how people live there And what's important is that we discuss it here. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185651	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185652	I thank my colleague Misic, so you yourselves have testified that we on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia have strongly requested that the existing correspondence be strengthened both by human and technical, but also by allowing the reporting from northern BiH, the Tuzla region and Posavina and Banja Luka. And what you're talking about, so compared to a billion and 300 million to say, the kuna used to produce the broadcasting program on HRT, those 10 million used for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and of which only a third of it for the production of the programme is grossly insufficient, so if it is not possible to finance from the overpayment, then it is necessary to ask for other means of funding and ask for help from both the assembly and the Government to allocate adequate means of information as I said 3 million Croats living in outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185653	Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185654	A colleague of Ljubić, you are aware that in July 2017, an independent department for the production of the programme for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia was established. There are 10 employees and a few other outside associates working in the separate department. If you appreciate that developing this department is a key assumption that you can expect better quality software content for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and more appropriate terms under the HRT programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185655	I'd like to thank my colleague Ragug. Of course 10 people...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185656	Mr. Ljubic, you can answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185657	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament for giving me a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185658	.../Intruder Radin: Here you go./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185659	So I thank my colleague Raguž for this observation, certainly 10 employees involved in this programme for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia compared to 2800 on HRT is one serious disproportionate, however, should be fair, etc., and other participants on HRT, probably participate in some programmes broadcast for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so perhaps this disproportionate is not so great. However, what I also want to point out in the context of what I was saying, that Croats alone in BiH two constituent nations do not have public service in their language and... The topic of their interest, I think I encourage here too, and I ask the Director-General to establish quality cooperation with Herceg Bosnia Radio Television, which is a public television established by municipalities with the Croatian majority in BiH, to strengthen the information of Croats in the first row in BiH and then beyond through this cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185660	And finally, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185661	Thank you very much. As a member of the Croats, a BiH-constitutive nation, you can testify and, of course, talk about the guilt of those who govern both in Croatian politics and in BiH, i.e. towards the Croats and this constituent people where you yourself have said that they are in a better position in terms of both the media and the Serbs and the Bosniaks. And that's a fact. And the fact that these people don't have the world in a window about the media or have their own media and they're a constituent people. The problem is on the inside, and it cannot treat the Croats in BiH exclusively as the electoral body, except that they always manage the same and scare these people and essentially do not solve the problems. You mentioned a declaration to get rid of people, legal aid to HVO members, whether problems of electronic voting were solved so that buses do not force people to vote in Croatia. You solve the problem of these people's survival, not using them as a voting body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185662	Time. Here you go, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185663	Thank you. So, my colleague Bulj, I don't doubt your good intentions with regard to the Croatian people in BiH, but the perception of whose victim you are is probably widespread here in the Republic of Croatia that actually legitimate political representatives of the Croats are guilty of all the bad things that are happening to the Croats in BiH, so that metaphorically I bring it into war rhetoric like the Croats shelling themselves in BiH, which is of course not true. The Croats also rejected all Croatian representatives, refused the Croatian Law on BiH, and even the judges of the Constitutional Court, the Croats voted against it and it did not help us because, as I say, the majority of the two Bosniak and Serb in BiH, with the help of the international community, established a service in such a way that the Croats do not have it. Therefore, for this reason, I appeal to HRT, including through co-operation with newly founded television by Herceg Bosnia, actually help Croatians get quality information in BiH. and beyond informing the Croatian public in quality. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185664	Thank you very much. It is now up to the debate of Ms Irene Petriyevcanin Vuksanovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mr. Zeljko Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185666	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, director with associate. As there were more allegations today, as we discuss the 2016, 2017 and 2018 Work Report, as it was something special, I looked at it, and this practice existed in earlier years, and in the Croatian Parliament it was debated for 2013 in 2015, for 2014 in 2016, for 2015, but it was not on Croatian Radio Television, but on procedures within the Government and the Croatian Parliament, because I saw that Croatian Radio Television regularly submitted its Work Reports. I appreciate that it is important to stress this because today, in the context of legitimate criticism, there is often something about Croatian radio television that does not stand. Croatian radio television is undoubtedly the best TV in the Republic of Croatia and beyond, in Southeast Europe, recognised by professional international organisations, and has an enviable place in the framework of European radio television. No one mentioned, or I didn't hear that Croatia radioed television in 2016 marked 90 years of Croatian Radio and 60 years of television, which is also a great success in the context of development, so political units in the area of the former Yugoslavia or independence later in the Republic of Croatia. These are all facts that need to be pointed out because of correctness. Of course, it is found in the text of the Reports and the details that amaze you, but which are part of our reality, so I will just mention some without getting into the more precise definition of these positions, it is the structure of the employees, the school prepares, therefore and the structure, so the years of the employees of Croatian Radio Television, and how much I remember only 30 employees under 29 years, which says that there was nevertheless an organization that had the characteristics of the context of the social in the Republic of Croatia as it was, but no doubt the last few years have made a lot of positive steps on Croatian radio television, data for 2016 on the income of 30 million kuna, for 2017 100 million kuna income, then 80 million kuna, and the fact that this income is used to solve losses says that a more positive trend in terms of the more rational business of Croatian radio television. It also states on the opening of new correspondence that has been closed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so the steps that will continue, I hope, develop in the sense of, therefore, upgrading and staffing, and technical correspondence by Croatian Radio Television in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mostar, Sarajevo, and even when material assumptions are obtained, perhaps the need to open up Croatian Radio Television in Banja Luka, and even for Posavina and Tuzla County, all of this is something that needs to be considered, but above all provide a financial basis that can be realised. Although it is popular to talk about the cancellation of the subscription, the fact that the subscription amounting to 80,00 kuna compared to all needs of the realization of software content seems insufficient. It also seems insufficient and the funds that have been planned for several years at the same level at an annual level of 10 million kuna and 800 thousand kuna are not enough for the realisation of the contract, so HRT must adapt and justify why the software content it manages is not at the appropriate level or not as expected from the HRT. So we in the Croatian Parliament should be louder in terms of taking responsibility for the position and development of HRT at all levels where our voice is heard. Whether according to the government of the Republic of Croatia, either within the assembly when we discuss this issue. What you do care about us outside the Republic of Croatia is that you define problems that we could listen to today, and as regards objective information from Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I do not want to say that unfortunately on HRT only ends one common relationship of Croatian society, the Croatian society towards Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, and what is now on HRT is a real situation in this matter, in addition to these positive effects that have been made only illustrates our overall relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Whether they are minorities in 12 European countries or Croats are in overseas countries in Australia, New Zealand, etc. Especially when it comes to BiH Croats and us who are in public life in BiH, we are often faced with the complexity of BiH and the fact that BiH is quickly judged, it concludes, and it is much more complex than what such quick conclusions suggest. That is why it is necessary for competent people, people with experience who can present the complexity of BiH to the public of the Republic of Croatia, to work in BiH's BiH memoirs. And in that direction there is a shift and I thank you for the effects, but I also expect to continue to work in that direction. A colleague, Ljubic, spoke about the interactions between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and in the field of media and information. More needs to be done to bring BiH's complexity closer to the public of the Republic of Croatia. The Croats of BiH are well informed about everything that happens in the Republic of Croatia, but we must not ignore the fact that we are in the Croatian Parliament, so we are in the Republic of Croatia and that it is the task above all of the HRT to inform about the Republic of Croatia, and then also under two of the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Of course, better understanding and within the political scene in the Croatian Parliament between the political groups involved can be a contribution, not only to the irresponsible criticism of HRT or individuals who advocate a more realistic approach to HRT and its role in informing the public in the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. In this direction, HRT shall also assist in the exchange of software content with the cooperation agreement and with the recently established Radio Television of Herceg Bosnia. There must be plenty of room for more significant steps in the direction of objective information, mutual information to the public both in BiH and in the Republic of Croatia to exchange software content, thus exchanging production and radio television. I appreciate that for these very reasons, HRT should be encouraged because other levels are not addressed naturally as employees and leadership of HRT to encourage the need for better information in BiH, especially Croats, because of all the political constraints imposed on them by political representatives of Serbs and Bosniaks in BiH and especially the Croatian minority in Serbia. In these two countries, there are restrictions on the use of both Croatian languages in public media and in Serbia and BiH, and I see the possibility that HRT can help overcome this situation. Finally, I appreciate all the remarks we could hear about informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that HRT is on the right track, that it sees possibilities, but it also needs a stronger financial basis so that this part of its obligation, by virtue of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government, can also be fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185667	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Sasa Djujic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I'm going to talk about this completely opposite of my colleague Ragug before I do. So, for starters, I believe that the reports that have been late for years not only to HRT in the debate in this Croatian Assembly of this and that is not the fault of the HRT which sent its reports neatly, I do not remember that it has ever happened that, in fact, we in this term of office of this Government and these ruling majority are essentially now discussing the work of the HRT in this term. So today we're discussing 2016, '17. And in '18. A year. So, practically for HRT's work throughout the term of this ruling majority. I don't think that's ever happened before, and as a rule, when we're discussing it, we're discussing it now at the end of this term. Another thing I want to say is how much HRT itself takes care of the public. I think this is a topic that interests all of our Croatian citizens. At this point, as we discuss this important topic, we are practically discussing HRT on television transmission, there is no debate here. So, on HRT you can now follow the surfer league in Brazil at this time is on HTV number 4, who is interested in Croatian citizens much more than what we are discussing about the work of the home. Today, it is often mentioned, and often when it comes to HRT, it is essentially the focus of this clumsy TV subscription. I'm not one of those MPs who thinks the TV subscription should be lifted. So, we need to talk about her height, I'm more into this social criterion that my party is proposing, so we're setting social key for example. when pensioners or citizens are weaker material opportunities, to create which subscription will be, but when we hear here, the editor-in-chief of all television programs says that the law allows it to be even higher and to rise by 16 kuna, this TV subscription, on the other hand, offers Croatian citizens what it offers, then comes into focus the debate on the subscription. I will now try to sum up my thinking and what I'm saying. So the citizens wouldn't mind that 80 kuna TV subscription if they got a quality program for counterservice, and that's not a flossula, so first thing, I'm going to say now an example of this German journalist, today it's mentioned. So the lady was doing a documentary on HRT where it's that I don't convince again what's in it, but what's surprising is, the first thing that's written there and as much as it's been said, she sent you on HTV to want to be there, she wanted to be there, she was on your TV, she talked to your journalists who were presenting their testimony in what conditions and how they were working on HTV, that none of the HTV administration or the management of that woman had even responded to the mail, she didn't want to talk to her, that later when the Croatian media released that show that was broadcast on the radio in Germany, you didn't even take it from HTV to deny or try to deny what the woman there said and what journalists from your TV there were saying and testified on what conditions they were doing. It's showing again how you operate on HTV. Another thing that hurts citizens is that your journalists can't ask the president questions, the ministers questions, that they can't open up the topics they think they think, so you don't even have to be a big genius, it's enough to look at HTV's journal, then what RTL goes on before and the new TV, so when you compare news or compare certain events, then everyone sees clearly what you're doing. Here's me when we had some conflicts in the SDP, every day there were three shows on HTV, Studio 4, open, now in HDZ during the day, you follow it as you follow, but well, that's your choice, and it raises your ratings, but what bothers me, it bothers me with the way you finance and the way you do business. So when we talk about selecting some shows, I'm going to give an example of how HTV works. So, there's this show called "Vrtlarica" that's very popular on your television, and it's the lady and the husband who worked with you, they were employed with you on my information for one salary, which for a long time was what it was, then you came into some kind of conversation, so people weren't happy with the salary they had, they were negotiating with you to raise that salary, you said it didn't fit your financial frameworks, and then they found the modality to pay for their garden and it was about 1,000 kuna a month if I had good information. ... Okay, well, they worked at your place, they were busy at your place, it was caused by a few thousand kunas off the contract, people are now working on their production of that show and selling it to HTV and it costs a lot, a lot more than it would cost while they were at your place. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The other thing, your names are leaving yours, in your house, on the other hand, for twice your fee, you bring some others. So, you don't invest in those personnel of yours. The second thing, I'm going to mention the "general" series here. Who will be responsible for this failure of epic proportions that happened? And I don't just think about HTV that funded and in a huge financial amount, but I also think about some other state-owned companies, so HEP funded this series, the Post Office, etc., and that came across criticisms and audiences and people, when people look at what you pay and what millions of dollars are and what's it all about, so normally they're not happy with the TV subscription, they don't want to pay anymore. The other thing, they have people, okay, someone can be screwed up, someone can pick something wrong, you have a "President" series about President Tudjman who's about the 20th anniversary is now being broadcast to you, who's already given to a man who's done some kind of shows four times with you that have been criticised and proved to be not good at all. So when you're watching Tudjman's show, I wouldn't make my dad a more subjective contribution if I was doing a personal show. So the man is there, there's not a single flaw, you didn't take at all objectively, not you, but whoever did it took objectively some historians, let's say from the center, the left, some criticism, that he pulled out some kind of controversy about President Tudjman, but that's just an example of a series that was made, which you then finance with 300, 400 000 kunas and then citizens looking at, people who lived at that time and looking at it's not true and they're not happy and they know that they have to pay you 80 kunas every month to fund these things out of it. And you have some experience about it. So there's a lot of these problems, there's a lot of ways that you guys work like television and where money is being wasted. So no one is asking the question of "Novine" series, "Black and White World", these are some of the lasting values with which the audience is satisfied. Actually, what do I want to tell you? When an audience is satisfied with a series or a show, then it is not a question or a financial question, then no one will ask you why you paid 7 or 8 million kuna, although it is a series that will show up for years like in some other circumstances some cultural values were created, like I don't know, "Little Mist", "Blessed and Sons", "Gruntova", so something our television has done, okay, today it's another system, it's different, but when you create such values that are then repeated for years and will be shown in 5 or 10 or 15 years, then no one asks the question of neither the financing nor the way people are irritated, but when you make one "General" in such a way that it is now shown, and very likely will never again be shown on Croatian radio, because I have heard that your administration there is also after the 5 episodes of God that you have asked that you do not spend so much more than 10 weeks. Then normally people ask where our money goes. Why do we pay for it and who pays for it? And what are you doing with it? Second thing, I saw you there paying some 320 five-minute shows a year for a couple thousand kunas. So why don't you two thousand employees on HTV have people who are able to do a five-minute show with material and people you have there? So these are all kind of forms of business that show that HTV is not well managed, so it's not just about the editorial policy that it is. But then again, this story that none of you have denied this German radio lady or taken it as a matter of fact to the public at all shows me that things aren't good there. I see my time is running out, so I have to end it. But mostly I don't think you're doing a good job. I think you have space, personnel and people that you can do a lot, a lot more. And I am much more concerned about this financial part of what you spend money on, how you spend and how you have a relationship with your employees, and I believe that concerns both Croatian citizens and therefore avoid the subscription of 80 kuna. If the HTVs were at the level he used to be 20 years ago, then I believe that even these 16 kuna gatherings certainly wouldn't be a problem for people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185669	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. The first is the replica of Mr. Rakuž.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185670	I agree with you that it would be better to discuss the 2019 Report, but for these three reports in three years. I just said that, unfortunately, it was practice both in earlier years and earlier, and the fact is that in 2018 we discussed the 2015 Report. So in this term, we discussed a report as I said the 2015 report was discussed for 2013 and 2016 on the 2014 Report. But I was interested in the same way as you, so I saw that it was not Croatian radio, that they regularly submitted reports, and that the procedures led to this outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185671	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185672	That's what I said. This has never been the case for us to discuss a ruling majority during the entire term at the end of that term. So 2015 couldn't even be a debate in the Parliament because then there were elections and then it was over. And I said it's not up to Croatian TV. But you see, this ruling majority has set up the administration let's say so through the Supervisory Board and through everything. So this ruling majority now has the management of Croatian broadcasting and this ruling majority decides when we will discuss the work of that administration that I am talking about. So at the end of the term of office of this ruling majority, we are now discussing practically three years of the mandate of this administration on HTV. Okay, late 2016, they were appointed, but we're only discussing it now. So, that kind of distance never happened, that's the point, and that's the criticism of the ruling majority, not the gentlemen of HTV when we discuss it. Because if we had discussed this two years ago, maybe we wouldn't have made the mistakes they made in 2018, and in 2019 we'll only see.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185673	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185674	Thank you very much. I'm surprised you're surprised because you're starting to wonder. Well, you don't have to be surprised. We have already seen different things in this assembly and I am not surprised that the debate on HRT is now. It could never have happened, because you can see that the rulings are actually doing exactly what they want. They didn't want to discuss HRT. They didn't want us to ask what happened to the subscription, what about the program, what about certain projects that are going because they don't want the public to hear it again. So nothing was weird. Always headed by the Information Committee, the one who ruled and did not let go, the HRT sent its reports neatly, did not let go any further. He didn't let go, not by accident, but on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185675	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185676	I'm kind of surprised, and I'm always kind of an optimist, so then I think it's gonna be okay. But now you've reminded me well. I see this colleague Maric only when he came to the board's head we started to discuss HRT. I don't know if I should link it to that, or maybe his predecessors wouldn't let go of that debate. But I certainly say it's not good not to argue. And the same thing I'm saying right now on HTV 4 instead of letting the home of HTV lets the citizens watch the transfer of debates about their work, you're transferring the Brazilian surfer league. Now I don't know, let's do a survey which people are more interested in surfing in Brazil or HRT's work because you could tell independent contracts it's our house's interest and let today transfer it to HTV 4. So that's what's already incarceration is, in fact, the worst thing is that behavior we do what we want and no one can do anything to us. And you're really annoying people. It's easy now that we're 20, 30 MPs. You go out on the road, and whatever man you ask everyone is unhappy with HRT's work, and that shouldn't be because you have a prerequisite for being the best in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185677	Time. A lot less than 20. Mr. Djujic, there's a lot less than 20 of us. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All day maybe. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185678	Thank you very much. To correct you, there are exactly 20 of us. When you count everything in the assembly And with you that [[And with me?]] You can talk enough. [[/Intruder Radin: Which I cannot speak. Here you go.]] But okay, let's let it go now. So in the beginning, I'm going to say that I'm convinced that this service doesn't make any sense. So we spend a billion and 200 million kunas of Croatian citizens each year on something that doesn't justify our expectations. It's easy for me. It's easy for Mr. Boric, Sladolev, Mrs. Anku Mrak Taritash, easy for us. But the citizens who are looking at us right now believe me to do an analysis of what would be normal for HRTs to work out of these billions and 200 I guess they can spend 100,000 kunas on four researches a year to see what citizens think about the fees on their work. If you asked these same citizens, if you did such research, you'd see devastating results. People are unhappy, unhappy to see that it doesn't make sense and that they're simply being squeezed for a few caste that enjoys it all together. Now I'm not going to talk about employees there because there are certainly 3000 people out there who would do better, differently, better quality to make it possible for them. What I want here is particularly highlighted are a few images because the pictures best outline the whole situation on HRT. We have 48.5% of the information program means almost 50% of everything seen on HRT is part of the information program, and when you look at the impact of this information program and compare it to an information program, for example, small cable TV such as N1 or the impact of RTL or New TV or RTL "The Direct", to make them some commercials, you can see that it's totally inconsistencies. So a billion and 200 when you split in half, let's say half the money is spent on that, 600, 700 million kuna we invest in the information program. What do citizens and what kind of citizens get from this information program? Figure 1, Advent Zagreb, interview with the director of the tourist community. So was it normal for Mr. Bacic to be asked there by a journalist about corruption affairs or do you have to protect the ruling majority? Is that a normal question that interests all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? No matter in 10 minutes, Ms. Bienenfeld has been exposed to any question about corruption that has burdened public space in the Republic of Croatia for months. Figure 2, Milanović-Grabar Kitarovic's interaction, I don't know if you noticed, but I noticed that one candidate or candidate was reading from paper answers to questions or was psychic or one candidate had privileged status from the information programme. The whole of Croatia saw it, everyone laughed at it, everyone saw what it was all about and everyone saw that with their money every month of retirement, small salaries gave money to make that joke of the information program. And then picture 3, the principal or whatever it is called information media content, embraced by Tomislav Karamark, sits 3 or 4 years ago on a bus in the HDZ party campaign. She wasn't a campaign spokeswoman, she was probably driven by Mr. Karamarko together to see what the campaign looked like, but the atmosphere was obviously very, very good. And that's why I'm saying, it's not a public service, it's a HDZ service. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay HDZ and the service of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia because how else do they explain that when you have an affair over the advent affairs, the journalist will not ask any questions. How else do you explain that a candidate in public television confrontation has questions, and there are no answers when he gets questions, so that's Mrs Grabar Kitarovic's problem that she didn't even have answers when she got the questions in advance? How do you explain this to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and how do you explain to them that they pay a billion 200? And that is why I advocate that not because I would have something against the public service if it had been arranged as a BBC in England or any other public service in the EU, I would not mind paying the tax, it could be useful, but this contaminated, like this, without any sense, absolutely against paying the tax. And I'm even grotesque to hear Mr. Principal here say there could be even more tax, as if you're happy because it's 80 kuna, we can put it on 96. And then another editor from HRT can't remember right now exactly as if I read it on the portals, says that miracles would work with 96 kunas. Well, look, you guys should be working wonders with 80 and 40 kunas because those who have a more watched program than you get nothing. They get a quarter of your income from commercials, and they have a more visible diary with more information shows. N1 has reborn the information space, thank God for N1 because otherwise, ask God if citizens would get all that information, give them to follow all these affairs that we have on a daily basis because the HRT thread goes to whoever holds on to themselves or sees who holds on to themselves. So thank God for N1 one more time I'm going to tell them every honor because they did it that we don't really need an information program of HRT at all, we don't need it at all. In the evening is covered information program with RTL and Nova, the only show that may still be missing in the space of informational contact shows and dual shows such as "Open", but maybe one of the private TVs will do so in some recent period then HRT will no longer be needed at all. And what can HRT boast? With the biggest, I'd say, media space got the situation on HRT, the first when they came across their journalists, Mr. Zovka, Mrs. Maya Sever and a whole series of journalists and sued their own journalists for a job that they did qualityly and others when they were the financiers of one series that had a fiasco, it was a "General" and a movie that probably General Gotovina was ashamed of him when he saw it. We paid, or the taxpayers paid from HRT 10 million kuna and that I get here the answer from Mr. Bačić that it was before him, so it's none of his business, so someone arranged it, someone else participated in the negotiation and supervision processes and, and seeing how it all worked together in HRT. Who's responsible for that? Who's responsible for the failure of the HRT project? Is there any responsibility? Or you've agreed to seek responsibility only from those who do their job as well as those journalists I mentioned earlier. And then when you create a hack on those journalists, when the public and others try to protect them, then in style I don't know if I can, to insult Kim Jong-un here... No, not Kim Jong-un to offend, the leader of North Korea... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, I won't, I won't, but he'd be more democratic than the HRT who sat there 20 and made a press conference to explain how they were pressured by the poor, that they had no freedom, etc. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Look, that's funny, you're Mr. Bacic's classic product of bad authority, and when that bad government goes away, TV like this, believe me. Do whatever you want, do a program informative for HDZ as you like, don't call the opposition at all into shows and journals, choose which ones you want, avoid one, but believe me, it will end very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185679	Mr. Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185680	Comrade Maras, I do not agree that a TV subscription should be lifted, you said in one of your discussions that this TV does not make sense and that you are against the abolition of TV subscription, fees, I am not, I think HTV needs Croatian and that HTV has those values or should have those values which commercial televisions do not have. Unfortunately, the information program no, it's not the backbone of HTV's work, it shouldn't be, there's the radio, there's some other shows. But I'm about to change television, change there the way you do business, if I don't say now, I won't determine the meaning of editorial freedom, but when they're supposed to do what you should do with an information show, you well mentioned "General" does something like that then people, people are rightly bitter and criticise that TV subscription, and if the program were the way it should be, then it wouldn't be a problem to pay for it, you said people are watching us now, don't look at us, let's say the people on HTV 4 are watching the review "Study 4" of this morning. It's probably more interesting than this discussion of ours, and that's the problem. [[/Intruder: Mr. Giujic's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185681	Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185682	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic, here you are, giving basically a picture of the debate being hidden from the Croatian public. So, if they pay a billion and 200 a year, at 3. They paid 3 and 600 billion, so didn't they deserve to hear what was going on and what was going on live there? Well, now you've just said that television has said everything about itself, so they don't want to pass this on so that the citizens of the Republic don't hear what MPs think about the work of that television, so it's a shame and a scandal in itself. We spent three and a half billion once in three years. We get that opportunity at all to discuss it and eventually television hides itself from the public to hear what the MPs think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185683	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185684	Representative Mrak-Taritash has requested a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185685	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, in your discussion you mentioned the visibility of HRT, I think that the one most visible is the psychic Milan, that, we knew about this when it comes to psychicity and when it comes to this confrontation I must admit it to me was embarrassing. I was embarrassed because it was absolutely clear that one of the candidates had questions, that he had prepared himself, how he was prepared or prepared, we saw it from, but it was generally inadmissible, even if it was so decided that it was absolutely wrong then it had to be made sure that at least the viewers didn't see it, and those viewers saw it and actually instead of helping you out, it was just another indicator of what kind of public service we had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185686	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185687	Thank you very much, but not only for the public, but the public paid for it, so we paid for it to make a cut presentation that the candidate failed to take advantage of, so you have advantages, centered on you. Chakarun Perisha probably information you don't know how to use it, so that's what the entire Republic of Croatia saw, and then eventually it's all about the head, but nothing happens, so what the whole Republic of Croatia saw, what is everyone convinced of, what is it with the analysis of the show you can look at and see that it's true, has there been any change in the information program? It's not because Mr. Bacic is doing what the HDZ tells him to do, so it's not the man who came there to do the work for the public, it's the work of the HDZ, and it's not going to change until we change the whole system on HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185688	Representative Culey has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185689	My colleague Maras, it is clear to me that the children of the party are deeply disturbed by the film "General" because they are used to Serbian watches that keep repeating themselves on HTV where our children are also slowly teaching Mirko and Slavko who were your role model, and I loved Bata Zivoinović the most. And he said, lucky he left, so I can't watch him anymore. The river, it bothers you “General”. You didn't mind the funds that were intended, paid for various Serb-partisan watches in Croatia in the past, and not in this time of ours. I remember a guy named Lici who got three and a half million kuna. That didn't bother anyone. They didn't mind movies that muddy the Homeland War, but they bother one "General". You wouldn't mind movies about your ancestors showing them in the right light, not the way Mirko, Slavko and Bata... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185690	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185691	Thank you very much. You didn't understand what I was saying at all, but that's not the first time. Probably not the last one. So on that side, I have an understanding for you. Mr. Culey, I would even assume that this is a conspiracy because Mr. Vrdoljak, director of "Generala", made a beautiful film called "The Green Bor is growing in the mountains" partisan. Which is why Mr. Vrdoljak made a super Partisan film, and a disastrous film about the Homeland War is suspicious to me. I find that suspicious. So by this point, I haven't thought about it, instead of making a great movie about the Homeland War, and a bad Partizan Vrdoljak, no. I'd ask myself that if I were you, Mr. Culey. Could be some kind of conspiracy or sabotage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185692	Thank you. Representative Dark Taritash has come forward for an individual debate on this subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185693	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear director of HRT, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have in the debate that everyone has already said the report for a longer period and it's good to have it. When we discuss HRT then and any such institution must be discussed about space, people and programmes. I'll start my discussion positively. So, there's something on HRT that I discovered this year, and as far as I'm concerned, it's top-notch and it's Voice. I had a chance Saturday to be on camera so when it went live and I was pleasantly surprised by the technique, the people, the way it was done. It's me, it's been done on an extremely professional level, and it shows the HRTs that it can. Whenever he wants to, and when he won't. So if it's done so well, I don't see any reason not to do anything else. I'm one of those people who thinks the state has to have public television and I don't think that public television should be financed through a citizen's subscription, but that it can be financed in some other way. And I think the role of public television is what commercial television can't. Some programs that commercial television can't have are primarily children's programs, they're document programs, they're educational programs, and I think that's something we need to take care of and that's something we need to develop. But what we have a chance to see in reality isn't exactly that. Of course, we policymakers are always more focused on the information program. This information programme must be objective. I had the same opportunity, I was at home, and I was interested in something because, of course, as always happens with us, I failed ours on no television and I turned the HRTs 4 and at that point, on HRT 4 there was a picture of the way that Elizabeth Queen's people are actually listing swans, the white ones were true God in question I didn't see any black ones on all the water streams in Great Britain. Because even in a month it was a question if I wasn't wrong about the millionaire, I knew the question because I saw it. So HRT 4 should be an information program. You need it, I think we're all giving together enough material so you can fill it and it can be. I'll look back here on a few things. The first thing that will remain remembered by HRT is a diary that went the next way – the worst rating has Zoran Milanovic and was his percentage of the bad rating and was graphics. So it was a few years ago, and then the person who kept the diary said: “But the worse rating than it has Tomislav Karamarko. ” I think it'll be remembered in the annals what it looks like when public television is a cheerleader. There's another one, so that's where the generals are all the time, and I'm not going to mention it, but I'm going to mention one series, or one documentary, went to the doctor's 4 below in politics. And now I, it went on Mondays, I looked at others were doctors who were all at HDZ so from the beginning and a lot about them and, among other things, I looked at the checkout list and I saw my name and last name and I think someone got confused. No way, I couldn't say anything. And here was the third sequel that I hadn't seen, and then I was the fourth sequel where there was one of the colleagues who wasn't from HDZ, and then I thought to myself why I was here, and I remembered why. So, I've had this long, long conversation on the subject and I've been giving some sort of an opinion about what I think or don't think about this colleague. He was of course on the side at this point in opposition when I gave it to him was ruling and he was not at all in that series. I call him now and say, "What happened?" I thought someone was confused when my name was that I was involved. He says, "Listen, there's been a change of government." Now there were four extensions, all HDZ, maybe two that weren't just to show that they did. So I called and said why I wasn't here, 'cause my home was being filmed on some property and everything else, and then I was told, you know, editorial policy. And you know how we know changes are going? According to HRT's editorial policy. So at a time when everything together gets a little complicated that you could estimate that regarding the president's election it might happen that such confidence and haughtiness that the president will be the second term that it will not be so. Suddenly you saw some other candidates on HRT. I joked once, and I said there are some colleagues who are in politics who can come to HRT in the "Dnevnik" only if they die and then will publish that and that one died. Of course it was a joke, I don't want anyone to, but that's the way it is. You and now that you look at the “Divnik” still see some others and others comment or some informative ones. We see by you by HRT we see that the chairs are no longer as strong and something could change there, and that's wrong. Public television should be objective. I'm absolutely aware that I always have someone who has sympathy for someone bigger, someone less, some of the journalists in some shows prefer to call, some of whom they kind of communicate more politely, so that when I've already had that illustration or what it's called about a funeral, everyone when we die gets an appointment. Someone gets a little better sometimes a little bit worse, but we all get it. So what's the point of public television is that you have the opportunity to be as objective as possible, to hear both sides. It's the worst when you hear one side and the other doesn't. But now that there's something little we can see that there's some kind of slight change, obviously it's all possible. And I'll go back to what makes one house a good house, so what HRT could do to a good house are people. You know, you can have the perfect space, I joke every time I go there, and I happen to go, I'm a space planner and architect, but the second or third time I've been on HRT, I've left every hope that I can get to the same place, but it's not your fault, it's your designers, or you start painting the hall with some other color, but it's really a joke, it's people. Good, good-quality people can do good things, and if they're not good and good-quality, they won't do good things. So you can also have bigger subscriptions and I'm more than the ones who advocate that there's no subscription than to finance in another way, you can also have great techniques without people doing it. Your picture of HRT is among other things your court proceedings with your employees, it's a picture that's an ugly picture, it's a picture that speaks uglyly about the whole institution and the whole house. So you're going into court proceedings with your employees and instead of trying it when you've already started to do it the most polite way, you haven't decided on it and that's what's saying bad about you. So, to conclude, public television should be as objective as possible. The picture is as objective as I've told you what's left of me that's going to be written on anals who's got a negative, which is even more inactive than it is, but also the processes that characterized you, it's just not good. For you it would have been incomparably better if we had the opportunity to discuss some reports earlier, but as I said in one replica, it wasn't your crime scene, you gave it up in time, and someone decided to keep it in the drawer. And until the new board president arrived, it would be in the drawer. I'm kind of sure things would leave that in history for some other assembly of parliament, but good thing it's not in history and good that we have a chance to discuss and say our views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185694	Thank you. Representative Djujic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185695	My colleague, you said, HTV when it will, when it won't and that's true, but unfortunately they won't, not all the time and that's the problem because people are unhappy, easy for us. So they've got the best equipment, they've got the best journalists, they've got the most professional shot there on HTV, and that's undeniable, that's everyone who's met and who's a little on TV with all the respect for these privates and there's still one slightly different and level and seriousness, only these people don't work. Not that they don't work because they're lazy or they don't know, but obviously someone's limiting their work, obviously some kind of administration is running some kind of policy where they shouldn't run, I don't mean politics as a policy, I mean working politics. And basically they won't and produce a bad program, produce a bad information program and everything else and that's why people are bitter and this problem lasts for years. And people don't want to pay 80 kuna for something that's not worth that money, it's not worth that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185696	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185697	Thank you very much. That's right, fellow Djujic. So people are bitter and they ask what we're paying for because when it comes to the information program, so it goes into 6 news on N1, then at half 7 on RTL, then at 7 HRT, then at 7,15 Nova. When you look at even the ratings you see that people very often transfer right from RTL to Nova, the HRT keeps very little and it would be, so you do research like everyone does research and you do research on ratings, research on the ratings of your information program, and they show where it is. And those who run the information program should be concerned about it and my people say we're doing something wrong. It can't be a bad time, it's never a guilty term, so we're doing something wrong. What are we doing wrong? Why do people skip us when or wait for RTL "direct" at 10:15 p.m. to see everything It's to worry about the editor. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185698	Thanks, it's over. Time's up. Thank you. For an individual debate, MP Vučetic signed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185699	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, and I welcome the representatives of the HRT. Since this topic has its historical and historical period, following this continuity of the report that is before us today, I will also try not to give this topic great importance because the topic is not important but just to highlight a few things that, in the context of what I have said, insignificant topics, can't be significant either. What's this about? HRT is often completely without any justification accused of carrying out censorship. HRT doesn't do that. I'm afraid he's not. For what? It's because censorship comes from the effort of those people who are fighting for some kind of know-how. Censors are the ones who cut some contents and what they didn't cut off and what they let out in public makes sense. Censorship still works in a way that offers some sense. HRT doesn't do that, it does what in literature is sentsurous, instead of "c" we have two "s". It in public space, in what should be present with a public mind and with some familiar content, it introduces one content that is completely devoid of meaning, it is a sensation, it takes away meaning. It gives the banal contents, the contents they cheer up. It's something that fits, again in the literature of this post-modern world, of a world ruled by post-icitin. If we look at the main or impact terms and emissions that should be political-informative content, then we will see that there are mostly guests who represent the truth which are politicians who are struggling with their own history or the history of their own party or the history of their own political options, they have done something, and then in the media that promotes sensation or devoid of meaning, now with prime terms they have the opportunity to change it and to claim that they have not done it, they are regular guests in evening news shows or in evening shows in which the sensation or absence of meaning is demonstrated. I'm saying it's part of the censorship, I'd be happy. Since it is a sensation, senseless content is difficult to come into any relationship at all and it is almost unnecessary to talk about pointless content at all. However, it would be incorrect for me not to point out something positive on HRT and a positive programme is one that stands and one that is performed under the title "Studio 4". Now there's a free territory, a free space and a possibility to hear the contents that aren't directed towards meaninglessness. If HRT wants to go to the totalitarian system or the censorship system, then "Studio 4" should be abolished. If HRT wants to leave the sensation, then the work methodology that exists in Study 4 should be extended to the entire HRT programme. For now, it is a pointless content, a pointless institution that has these elements of post-truth, which has elements of post-democracy because through media content, Croatian citizens are offered senselessness, meaningless reality and political actors promoting the truth. So that the HRT and this report that we are discussing today, we can discuss or look for censorship elements, which is exclusively about humanisation because during ideology, it is about who is going to manage some kind of institutions and that they are people who are responding to some kind of stranger. The HRT certainly has these elements when it comes to governance structures, that there are also Croatians managing parties' interests, but on the other hand, the programme is at a level of pressure, so this pointless programme should be left with senselessness and it is good that HRT does not now carry this, because in this transfer it would encounter what it is and it is an unnecessary reality that promotes political fastness and its own excess of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185700	Representative Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for asking on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club for 10 minutes to consult on a very important matter, which is that here's a dozen discussions here we have, critics are amazing and reasoned and on the other hand, representatives of HRT are silent, saying nothing, they can come forward, they can comment but they don't want to. So on the one hand, or they accept what we're saying as the truth, and they're simply counting the time for this to end so that they can continue for 3 years, or how long until the next time we see each other here by the time we're out of time, do what they're going to do, or just don't experience this House and MPs as someone who should be accounted for. And we should experience it because this is about the people we named, so he appointed them through certain bodies, directly to the Croatian Parliament. So maybe not directly, but the people who chose them were us. And on that side it's amazing and it's unacceptable that colleagues from HRT and "a" didn't say after a dozen discussions that were all critical, usually people write something down, suggest their colleagues, answer something but here at all, on a whole series of criticism, nothing happened, so here's a dozen discussions passed, there's no comments. So once again, either it's about total ignoring and accepting the truth that we're talking about, or it's about disrespecting the institution or that institution that HRT and the HRT administration should be responsible for, and that's why we need to consult a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185702	Would anyone else like to request a recess on behalf of their club? So you won't consult. I approve of the break, we proceed at 14 and 40. [[MEETING IN 14.26 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.41 HOURS]] We continue with the work, MP Boris reported for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185704	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, esteemed director of HRT, Your Honor, ma'am, as well. So I want to say something after yesterday, or else it happens to us in the assembly that after the state's attorney's report, HRT comes in line, so there are always interesting discussions, so we heard yesterday from a fellow SDP that the state's attorney is lazy as well as the system, that they're doing nothing, along with all the figures and reports they've filed, which are measured in hundreds of thousands of cases, so you've heard today that your work is actually not good, that the cathedral of the Croatian spirit as some have called it is not good. that censorship is in action and that it simply needs to be changed because they are in some kind of power rush, so as we see here, there is no doubt without a RTV fee, they seem to have attached that television to the state budget and subdued the policy since this is what it looks like to them too much about politics while citizens are paying a tv fee, I see that message in this way, probably the HSS agrees with that as their coalition partner has no objection because I say, listening to these discussions is really a person sometimes wondering if the taste of a certain politician is that moment to assess whether a system, service informative or in any other part of what HRT is in all areas of sport, culture, religion, so, it should depend on the taste of Gordan Maras sitting in front of television, so he does something, and then praise commercial televisions that have one informative show, they are great, and it's always being able to say that it's best in the way that he can be able to do what he can be able to do. So the story of censorship is a little funny especially when it comes from the other side because I remember the time, because I was here in opposition from 2011 to 2015, the first move made by the SDP at the time, first replaced the director in a way that they changed the law, chose him as they wanted Mr. Radman, and then when he sat down, immediately all the informative shows that had until then had a certain value as "open" because he didn't want to conflict policies, the ministers went one to one in every Dnevnik and informative show, the opposition politician couldn't do 2nd. to see nowhere, possibly then the president of the HDZ then Tomislav Karamarko could get about 5 minutes a month. In person, I may have been there once, and at the end of the day when the mandate was already finished on television, Mr. Maras was there every day, every day, nothing bothered him, with a story like this they started in 2010. In 2011, they also announced through Plan 21 that they would lift the RTD fee. Unfortunately, they repeat the same thing and people believe it, and they really think that they can achieve it in such a way with policies until we sit down, when we sit down, pay the tv fee everyone please, they still raised it then, but well, everyone has the right to pretend that they forgot something or ask for support for some of their policies, but really, if this is SDP's position I'd like to make it really loud, all of them, that president, that we know what we're talking about, whether we're going to tie politics or HRT to the state budget or we're going to lock that service with thousands of employees and everything he's offering because it's such a message, a billion and 200 million kuna from the TV fee, it's not easy to compensate, so we'll have to sort it out at some point behind us because it all really seems bad as I heard it, funny, 4. HRT channels, 3rd radio, 3rd national radio, 8 regional etc., if they are not on these channels, then it's no good, and I'm watching, I'm looking at this lady who's also not here, so she's on that TV every night, I don't know what she deserves, what their policies are that such politicians need to serve every day with some attitudes that have nothing to do with anything, that I resent HRT, that the same people, the same politicians, Mrs. It's dark, Maras and that crew, which is why every night in the journal listen to their statements. That's what our voters, our citizens, honor us for, what you do in such a way as to listen here that it's political television, where we're not finished. Every show I watch is always at least two from the ruling, and some kind of coalition and two from the opposition, because what I know MOST is on television as a home, at least what I see. Are we going to listen to criticism? So we can, but let's be realistic, let's be realistic because if we're conscious of the work of a service like that with thousands of employees on the impression of politicians who want to watch their heads or their thoughts on that television every day, then there's never gonna be a good TV, ever, ever, ever gonna be one that won't be, I've got hundreds of colleagues here who are never on TV, which they're gonna say, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, and we're all watching, at least I, here I'm watching a lot of TV, I have time sometimes, especially on the weekends, so what's wrong with those shows. I don't know if any other TVs have such great productions that can interest one of the wider set of people or populations who do that have HRT, Saturdays, Sundays, we don't know this "Voice", and then "A Page", so we don't know in that fun part, so we heard, we don't know on Sundays these "Plad's Lands", "The Sea" being watched, you have "On Sundays at 2" etc., you have an "Open" that's seen no matter what we're saying. No, we estimate everything through an information service, it's not good, it doesn't follow, I don't know what everyone else has. Looking at 3 logs in a row every day almost all televisions have almost the same news, so they can't be different, there and there are different presentations and now everyone else is good, but what we're paying is wrong, it should be a free program, okay. But what do we do with it? Whether we were satisfied I don't know 2018, when we talk about 2018. With transfers from the world championship, we probably are, although I think the sport may not be too much on TV, but what's important is that time has done its part to tell you these packages that follow mean this Internet TV just did their part. Today you want to watch 20 sports channels, pay. Should HRT make more sport possible? Here's to them that alone.../incomprehensible/... I think what to follow as it is now I don't know how to ski or some other sports at some more important moments that HRT does. If we were supposed to watch the champion league for two days instead of one that maybe it's a failure, it's probably a sure thing, but I'm saying there's everything that we could list that's wrong, but I'm generally not sure that on those other televisions of eight o'clock at night I don't know what to look at except there are some of their own schemes, so then you look at the Turkish soap opera so you look at them I don't know for a year and they go neatly in so many hours and people get used to it and it's okay with them. But underestimating production as they do on the other hand, so they've turned to some series that now, of course, they want to watch some of their movies that are good to them. We heard what's okay with them. A black and white world, a time of socialism, and how beautiful we were in that time. All right, we can agree on that, maybe it wasn't very good for me, but tastes are always said not to be discussed, and we've been listening to tastes today, tastes of opposition that HRT has declared censorship. And every day they sit on radio shows, on all the information shows until at their time when they were taking care of that service, the opposition could not come near that service. That's what me and my colleague Shucker, who was here, etc., couldn't get close. And here we have comments from citizens why the same co-legislators are making some kind of statement, not from the assembly, you can't open TV without seeing them. And you ask them what capacity it is that all the best you know is that every day you're just there, but good. I say I personally see that there are problems here, and we and them, mostly when this pre-election year is always an attack on television and threats by abolishing rTV fees, and we're going to push out that story whether they're for abolishing and tying to the budget or for that fee they might survive in what form, and that the system is maintained as it is now, and we see that it's positive. After a long time positive and it's no good, not a ton good if you noticed because when their time was up, there was no concern of how much the director's spending in his office at the time. It was okay, even got the chance to determine how much he needed, if I remember correctly, it was about 10 million kuna available. I don't know if I said it right. So it could then be nicely controlled, politics, a political situation, which would come out. This head of Maras she's been spinning for two months with the one, if you remember to spin the idea of something. He paid himself in a pre-election campaign with the ministry's projects. I watched him every night, okay, you got the right to talk. Unfortunately, he's not here to answer. It was simply abuse of public funds in its own promotions. And that's what we watched. Unfortunately, I hope it won't be, and I personally support these reports, of course it can always be better, so when it comes to HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185705	Agent Lenart has requested a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185706	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, I know you're in pain at HDZ because you can't edit HSS attitudes and the way the HSS discusses. The Croatian Peasant Party in this assembly discusses a very clear and reasoned articulation of HSS attitudes, neither the HDZ nor the SDP. And while this team is in the HSS in power that runs the HSS, we'll have our own position and you won't tell us what we're going to talk about or anyone else. The aspirations and efforts of the HDZ to change this are a shot into the blank, and I'm sorry that it hurts you so much, but I think you have more problems with the HDZ dissociation, and you're smarter to deal with it than with HSS attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185707	Replica response, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185708	Thank you very much. I didn't say nothing about why the HSS supports it, because your leader just said that rTV tax is a hack that needs to be lifted. If you disagree, then you'll say it, if you agree, and I see that you agree, then you'll say that it's actually a policy attempt to tie that public service to the state budget, and then you're just about to see how it ends. Because if this policy means and this government is politically acting on setting up HRT, which would then be called if HSS and SDPs who already see themselves in power, even though I don't know for what reasons, would tomorrow tie it to the state budget. What then would be when these 10 million kunas I think from the state budget is the reason why you can politically assess this influence of someone on public service. I don't agree with that. Whether this rtv fee in this amount is sufficient, weak, too large, small, etc. It's to be discussed, but we'll clear these policies up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185709	Thank you. Representative Shuker has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185710	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric is very interesting there is a Law on HRT and there is a provision where the government and HRT sign some kind of contract for some money, for some rights, and today we are discussing the business of HRT. So, we need to discuss what we brought in this assembly, whether for the money that we gave HRT the right to collect from Croatian citizens, whether HRT used these money rationally, correctly, and whether it supplied what was the basis of that contract that the Government of Croatia signed with HRT signed, whether it delivered what it had to deliver. If we had discussed it in such a way we would probably have sent certain messages to the head director of HRT today, that we were not satisfied or satisfied, we would have sent messages to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that some things should be changed in the next contract. Unfortunately, however, we today did not mention that provision of the HRT contract. That's what he says most about those who've been talking today all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185711	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185712	Thank you very much. That's why I'm telling my colleague, there's no reading what's written in this one at all, we're here to evaluate the shows, you heard, I like this one, I like this one, I don't like this one, I don't like this one, and so on. I don't know, Mr. Petrov didn't evaluate anything to him. So we've narrowed that story down to, meaning about the business of HRT where you have seas of some financial and all other structured data on who likes or doesn't like which show and whether the information program is excellent, weak or not in relation to any competition even turns out that some local TVs with their programs look much better than HRT, and that's not true. Looking... but if counterpart Djujic thinks he's wrong, he'll probably be running his own policy, he'll just have to explain why they're pushing for the cancellation of the RTV tax and that Croatian television is bound to the state budget to finance itself from that, I guess. Will then be the influence of politics as it is now with these 10 million that we sign as a contract to resolve some content.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185713	Thank you. Time's up. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185714	In 238, so I said at no time that the overpayment should be lifted, that you listened well to my debate then you would know, but I said that you should change the way HRT works and everyone sees it, you see it, you just don't see your colleague Boric doing it. And you don't see much, that's why you've already lost two elections in a row from the Europeans and over the Presidentials, etc., and in a few months you'll lose parliamentary ones. And now it's interesting how only you fellow Boric see things, only too bad people don't see. But people see HRT like this that isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185715	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Djujic, since I saw this going in the direction of the replica, and not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't even ask which item, you didn't say an article, item nothing... Then I apologize, but this was a replica, which is why you deserve a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And all right, you took advantage of the rules. The breach of the Rules of Procedure probably also a reminder, MP Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185716	I'm ready. Your Honor. 238th also because I was surprised by this claim by my colleagues, Djujic, means he never said i.e. That SDP is not against staying a tv tax, probably he didn't see what his colleague put on this laptop here, and it says without a tv fee... So it's a separate opinion, you always have these separate opinions, that's your policy that you're going to explain, and that's what I've been talking about, and hopefully we'll clear it up who's for and who's against it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185717	So Representative Boric... You're welcome, on the warning you just received. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You won't continue? You won't. ... It's not a problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, thank you for commending the voice and performance skills of MOST representatives, for having a little more minutes, for keeping little of it from HDZ even better presented, but you're going to have to explain to the boss that yet your member who edits the program won't because you said you get less pay than tomorrow, that it's not true. Representative Peric reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185718	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, honoring the principal with her associate. Well, I'd look back on business, but before that, I'd say what the opposition party was criticizing, which is that we haven't had reports in three years, and I think this worked out for them. And why would I say that? So in 2016, with the end and the result that was transferred to the loss of nearly 600 million kuna, and then from that period and the term of director they appointed, we can say that this was of great benefit to them that it was not seen or heard in public, and it should be heard. Since 2016, you've been the director since 2017, positive financial results are being achieved, so in late '16. In 2017 there were some 100 million kunas more and also in 2018. 81 million kunas more and all that reduced this very transferred loss left by that government and that director, that should be made clear. The fact is that more than 100, nearly a billion and 200 million kuna are collected from the fee, and that is true and there are other sources, but what should be said under the Law on HRT is the amount of the monthly fee of 80 kuna is allocated in the following way, this must be known to the public by those who are following, which is that 55 kuna is allocated for the cost of production of the programme, 9 kuna is allocated for the broadcasting of the transmitters and connections, the Croatian Society of composers, the Croatian Association for the Protection of Artistic Rights and the Association for the Protection and collection of the distribution of the fees of phonogram rights, 3.5 kuna stands out for legal donations of the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of media, the Council for Electronic Media and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. 3.5 kunas are set aside for the costs of the activities of the HRT organisational units associated with public activity, 9 kuna is allocated for the costs of business, which are reservations, value coordination and financial expenditure all these 80 famous kuna fees from which much more is being serviced and which is very important for the objectivity and accuracy of the data. When you look at that period that the results are much better, that the credit debt that was over 350 million has been reduced, and it is now reduced to half of about 157 million, even less than half, that there has been a rationalisation of business costs and an increase in efficiency, and that when you look at the materials that the liquidity is improving, and despite the fact that there has been a restructuring of certain loans, then there has been a reduction in the obligation of 78 million kuna then it should be said in the way this HRT operates. Each of us can be more or less satisfied with the programme, but I think that everything HRT does is very valuable and quality, it's a number of information shows, so when they say we don't have currents, we also have "The Themes of the Days", we also have "Open", we have everything that happens in current living time. To look at only on a page where it writes, and it also says in the report that HRT emits 2 million and 15 thousand minutes of programs, or 33 thousand and 500 hours of programs, of which over 553 thousand minutes of information, 54 thousand of children's programs, about 92 thousand minutes of scientific education, 80 thousand of documentary, 41 thousand of drama, almost 100 thousand of cultural and 22419 minutes of religious programs, then these are figures that speak of the quality and quality of the program and of the width that it devotes to exactly HRT and cannot be said to be conducted politically and that it promotes one-ways like some people are used to say, but let our viewers evaluate it and in this way I think that the process you are engaged in and that you are doing is very high quality and I think that it should be properly commended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185719	Representative Djujic called for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185720	Dear colleagues, you are now talking about losses and getting how it is 2016. This director inherited the losses, and then it would be correct to say that the former administration that was appointed in the 10th month of 2012, it was during the SPD government that the administration inherited losses from that HDZ before, and then to see that continuity. In fact, 105 million kunas are losses made by HDZ on HRT in 2009, 2012. Your administration in 2011 already planned to end with losses of 7 million kuna, so your HDZ business plan was to deal with the loss and only in 2012 did the management actually start to stabilise those finances and 2013. The first year of management after HDZ in our government has ended with profits and the throne is with that part, so when something, is, in 2013, it was a gain and check a little data, check it out, it's publicly available, it's written and it was in these reports, and it's when you talk like that, and don't say that it wasn't losses before 2012, so it needs to be talked about continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185721	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185722	Well, look, I didn't sit in the assembly, like you, like a lot younger than me and I don't remember those times... Well, here's the thing, I remember these times... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185723	Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185724	It's your fault, obviously you're a very capable politician, I'm not... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185725	Representative Djujic, please, but I'm asking you to allow someone else to excuse it or I'll have to give a warning, please... Djujic deserves a warning, this is your second warning [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Because you don't let the other MP, the MPs say it to the end, but you throw it out of the bench. [[/Intruder: And why?]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185726	Thank you very much, therefore, for the fact that in 2015 it was almost 600 million losses and I referred to the fact that, therefore, the opposite party at this point was quite conventional not to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185727	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Djujic, I ask that there be injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185728	Injury of the Rules of Procedure shall be as follows: In 238 and 239, you injured 239, colleague 238 because you had to react, so my colleague insults me, and on an age basis, so this government and HDZ are full of young people's mouths, and I see that she has a problem that I'm young enough to get into this tall home, and I've had some work experience before, so what does it matter when someone walks into this high house or isn't and you're supposed to react to that vice president with a colleague because if someone has a problem with yourself for years, I don't know maybe doing some other job, so it's not in his frames in the time that came here, it's something else that people chose me here, but I don't see how your problem with your colleague when I became a representative, when I didn't, and it't. So you're supposed to react because it's an insult, I'm a colleague in my replica with nothing, I haven't offended with anything, not a single thing, especially personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185729	Representative Djujic, I let you go, MP Djujic, representative Djujic, I let you go 20 seconds more. I'll always let the person say it to the end, and then I'll assess whether there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not. So I did not make a mistake or wrong about the Rules of Procedure, and that claim does not stand around the 239th article. I also estimated that this belonged to a standard political battle and provocation if it was, but certainly it wasn't an insult to the MPs. Why would it hurt me if a person was talking about my age, and I had no problem with that? Now, what I'm about to tell you is, I'm going to be an I.D. this time, and this was for your third warning, I'm asking you because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and here I am asking you to be correct and to continue in correct tone. Thank you. Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185730	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Peric and we from HSS welcome that they are mastered by HRT and the public money of the good master and that they are being saved, but we believe that they are being saved in the wrong place, I have already said in the replica that there are no contributions and shows from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and other areas where correspondence has been abolished and that we expect the correspondence to be opened again because obviously there is money. And when I say that money has concerns us and that here's the profession says that through the acquisition of software content from external productions through a direct contract, part of that money flows at questionable prices, means direct contract at questionable prices, questionable qualities, because the profession says that in this way the cultural standard of the HTV programme is destroyed, and also the German journalist said in her report and the show on German programmes that censorship is present, that the editorials do not cooperate with each other, and that ministers do not often respond to journalists' questions. And the press are suing the house they're working for. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185731	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185732	So that should be reported from all parts of Croatia, it is, in any case, and as we hear it happens and it is actually being restored by some centres that have been abolished. And that's certainly how it is. That there's not enough information about your end I think personally there is, that there may even be more than just my Zadar, but it's a personal impression again. That it should be managed well in any case, I don't know, and I can't judge whether those direct contract prices were adequate or not, but at the end of the year, a surplus is made, so I hold that the director takes care of it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185733	Representative Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185734	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana said there is no HDZ or party, party influence on HRT, so please try to explain to me how it is possible that during the campaign president one, debate, one candidate has questions, another candidate has no questions, although this did not help her at the end is seen but helped. And secondly, is it normal for you to discuss Advent for 15 minutes on the day at the end of the journal, and for the journalist to forget about the head of Advent in Bienenfeld to ask about corruption affairs that lasted for months in the media. Because when you see these two things you can even say there's no party pressure. Well, that's obvious. And I'm asking you, Vice President, to take care of age-by-age discrimination, I think it's also an insult, I know you're coming from a slightly more conservative option. But still take care of it. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185735	Representative Maras is out of time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185736	I don't think there's any discrimination in anything. As far as the preparation of any candidate in any debate and confrontation is concerned, it is either the attitude of everyone and the ability or incompetence of someone who has prepared quality of any debate. The same way that we've all been on shows so we know that sometimes we get questions, sometimes we don't get questions, sometimes we can get ready, sometimes we don't. So it's actually on each of the leaders how they're going to ask and structure any kind of show, and that way it can't be appreciated at all about whether that leader should have asked the very question that you imagined had to be asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185737	A representative of Maras's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185738	Thank you very much. Article 238 is injured, counterpart Peric has now unwittingly admitted that debates when HDZ candidates go to HRT are given advance questions, and opposition politicians such as future President Milanovic do not get questions. So sometimes you win, sometimes you don't win, and the president hasn't won one at all. So that's what I'm saying, on the other hand, is what I said, and I had to do it for the public, for the sake of the public here to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185739	Representative Maras deserved a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on, go ahead. Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185740	Well, I'll probably deserve a warning, but how can an agent even insinuate that someone got or didn't ask questions? 238. [[/Intruder: What article?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185741	You deserve a warning. We're moving on, I've tried to be tolerant and make it come into a normal political ring. You won't have any warnings like that, there are procedures, just to make sure you don't earn them so much that you can't argue in the end. Thank you. We're moving on. Representative Stevo Culej reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185742	I welcome you too, Maras, wherever you are. Hello, everyone. In May 2018, Igor Vukić hosted HRT and presented his book Jasenovac Work Camp. The book Jasenovac Work Camp is a fruit of research and collection of documentation from the state archives of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. In it Igor Vukić published authentic documents from the period of '41. By '45. found in the Croatian National Archives and archives in the Republic of Serbia. His research was funded by the Croatian government. The book Jasenovac Work Camp was advertised on the 1st program of HRT for months and months before and after the show Good Day Croatia in which he presented the book, which was edited by Karolina Vidović Krsto. Since then, almost two years have passed, not a single point in that book has been denied, the book is still on sale, one emigrant even announced a huge cash prize for one who proves that any of the documents in the book are not accurate, that is Mark Franović, our Croatian entrepreneur from Australia, nothing has been denied or denied. Croatian parliamentary representative Milorad Pupovac announced a lawsuit against Igor Vukic over this book. He never sued him, although the author of "Jasenovac Work Camp" wanted it to prove his work undisputed in court. The only thing that happened again was the leadership of HRT removed Karolina Vidovic Kristo from the programme, again for no reason. Public persecution of journalist and editor Karoline Vidović Kristo by HRT leadership has been going on since 2012. when she revealed pedophilia as the basis for sexual education in schools, when she revealed the collaboration of Alexander Schulhofer with the declared paedophiles, when she revealed the collaboration of Alexander Stulhofer with the Kinsey Institute, who set out his thesis on children on brutal sexual abuse of children and infants, when she publicly called for the publication of the register of adjudicated members of the aggressor army who attacked the Republic of Croatia, when she publicly called for the registration of all politicians from 1991 to today who could and did not defend the Republic of Croatia, when she publicly called for the publication of the register of state incentives and subsidies, when she publicly called for the publication of the register of enriched privatisation, none of what was as journalist and editor Karolina Vidović Kristo investigated and conveyed to the Croatian public, nor was denied by HRT, however, the leadership of HRT again removed from the programme prior to 2nd. From the leadership of HRT as well as from the supervisory board of HRT, I request a detailed oral and written explanation for the removal of journalist and editor Karoline Vidović Kristo from the programme. Whether Karolina Vidović Kristo is away because of the book "Jasenovac" or has been removed because of this article, Zagreb comes condemning the appointment of Caroline Kristo as editor of the "Good afternoon Croatia", let Croatian citizens hear about this which pays the subscription to HRT which is why those who love to see on HRT are no longer there. I will talk about the next journalist, I will talk about Helena Krmpotić, at HRT she was fired after Milanka Opačić complained about her verbal delinquent. Croatian journalist Helena Krmpotic has been informed in writing that a procedure for the cancellation of the Labour Treaty has been initiated against her and because of something which is essentially a verbal delinquent. After a written complaint by Milanka Opačić, ministers from social policy and youth, that is information obtained by Croatian journalist, who was the so-called "HRT". Who's Helena Krmpotić? Helena Krmpotić, and her father Ivan Krmpotić was a protected witness in Germany in the case of Perkovic Mustac. Why did Helena Krmpotić get fired? Did she get fired because of her father who was a protected witness in the Perkovic Mustac case or because she was unconsciously working? ... HRT employee Helena Krmpotić has been invited to present her statement, defence in the procedure of regular cancellation of the Labour Treaty due to misbehaving, we reject all insinuations that any form of political pressure is involved, for everything else please contact the above-mentioned ministry and have been sent to us from HRT. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since I personally know and am friends with Father Ivan Krmpotić of journalist Helena, since I know what kind of case is being handled because Mr. Ivan Krmpotić was one of the founders of the Croatian police who in the 1990s with the first directors of the post in Šimunska, he was the father of Helena, which is why he was removed, I am giving to the citizens and you to determine and to show why she was fired, in writing to report the same. Next thing I know, there's another reporter, Mirna Berend, 2000, who was also removed from the HRT at the time of the staff carrier, and Mirna Berend was intruding at the time. So it's always been on HTV that we've been removing the inappropriate personnel, they've been lustrated at all times, and today we're not getting any verified information. Next thing I know, it's controversy on the welcome of the Firemen, the HRT censorship of Dalic and the shut down of Thompson in half the song. A large part of HRT viewers and listeners of the Croatian Radio remained disappointed by the cutting of Croatian menu Zlatko Dalic's speech on the welcome of the Fires in the central Zagreb square of Ban Josip Jelačić, as well as the strange end of the celebration in Zagreb. It is strange what happens in the Republic of Croatia when direct transmissions of such events are censored which are nice to the Croatian citizen, when journalists who dare talk about the truth hidden in the Republic of Croatia from the government to the government are removed, that is what many in the Republic of Croatia are bothered by, and because of what has been done well, I will commend the film "General" at least something has been done, but I will also resent that many films have long, long since we have not seen, some have been heard and banned. Why do we not see the film "Four Fourred" by Jakov Sedlar in times that are a memory of some time, in times of persecution of Croats, Bleiburg, Crossroad, why does Fourred not have its time and time on HRT? For what reason? In order not to show the truth that is kept secret and the truth and day today comes the main many journalists who dare to talk about it. Why isn't there a movie called "The Mother of God"? Why are there no other films on HRT that Croatian citizens would like to see? We can no longer watch that from evening to night Bata Zivojinović cokes us through small screens, we can no longer watch it. Let us have Croatian films that will remind us of what our ancestors had to go through in order for us to be where we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185743	Representative Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185744	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Culej, you have well reminded yourself of the film "The Fourth", even which is seen 69% of Croatian ratings and banned. We're wondering why that is? Croatian television is the television of the Croatian people and should be televised for what the Croatian people want, it is at the end and pay. And I think for some of the things and for these censorships that you said and some well-oriented Croatian journalists had to leave. I'm asking a question, it's not a question of you, it's a matter of years ago, why it's happening, what's happening on TV, but I'm going to talk a little more about it in my presentation when I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185745	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185746	Dear Muscle, sometimes our old men had to keep quiet from what they had been through in that war, and we grew up celebrating some new age heroes that were being imposed on us. We enjoyed this whole story, we even played partisans, but surprisingly no one ever wanted to be a Croatian native or on the other side, not even children of those who were killed on Bleiburg and on the Crossroad, we all wanted to be Mirko or Slavko. And now it's happening again to us that our children in prime terms are watching these same films again and they've started playing Mirko and Slavka again, and no one will be the Croatian defender again. Because let's just look at it, they're making fun of the only movie that's ever been made in a new time with the General. Perhaps the "General" has not been recorded in any of my tastes and any of my sightings because I am yet a current witness of events, I am witnessing the time that many here are neglecting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185747	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Bulj has requested a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185748	Thank you very much. Comrade Culey, HTV has a rich archive from the Homeland War, so it was the war cameramen who risked their lives, someone with a gun, those with a camera, and it was a picture in the world of you unloved Serbian high-level occupation of these crimes. This project that he was trying to keep safe, i.e. This material from the Homeland War some ended up in private studies, some in other competitive houses and was the project "Domovina" former V.D. Mr. Markota's director that this "dominant" to preserve this archival material from Dubrovnik to Vukovar from the most important time of history is the foundation of the state, the Homeland War. To this day, the current director did not sign that material to be preserved in the most impoverished way. So can you state your reasons? And as far as the microphones are concerned it's excluded Bandic probably this Tomislav, so when you see him he's partner with you ask him why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185749	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185750	Comrade Bulj, you well know that I am an independent shooter here in the Croatian Parliament, that I speak what is on my heart and on my mind, and that I am not subject to anyone's influence. And I will tell you, I will tell you freely, those who have destroyed the archives of the UDBA, those who have destroyed the entire archives of that war that cover up history, who are hiding those same refugees who are lurking around Croatian society today, and by Croatian authority we can say, who continue to create Croatian politics and sit here between us, behind you sitting two rows, one sitting that I have spoiled here in the Croatian Assembly at the press. Until such ones are archived and exposed to public insight we will live in the dark by then. And as for Croatian defenders, we have recorded many videos and we have them in our archives so that they will never disappear, we publish them all the time and they have failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185751	Representative Bulj has requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185752	Thank you very much. A colleague, Cujel, was injured by Rules of Procedure 238, in the section of which he spoke about the archives of UDBA. The UDBA archives were opened by the Most here, and HDZ closed, so we could do anything you say very simply to read and see. Which is why HDZ closed it, so ask your colleagues. And I probably deserve a warning. Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185753	Mr. Bull, you were right, you deserve a warning, you just got a warning. Representative Maras has requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Culey has requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185754	The same article of my 238nd colleague Bulj hurt me in some way. I am still the only one in the Croatian Parliament who discovered one UDBA associate sitting here with us and he's sitting behind you and I'm the only one who discovered it, none of you are here. So much for the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185755	Representative Culey and you have a warning, but just keep going, but I'm telling you to count well because soon you'll be speechless and we'll finally have peace here if you can't stick to the rules. Is this what you were going to say or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185756	No, no, it was obvious here that Mr. Culey...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185757	/Intruder Petrov: You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, according to which article?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185758	231 or 2 I'm not sure because Mr. Culey said Mr. Bully hurt him, and he can't hurt him because this is about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185759	Agent Maras, you have a second warning. We're moving on. An representative, Ante Babic, reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185760	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed head director of HRT with a co-worker. I'll briefly talk about some things because there's a lot of that said here and this is about paying a tv fee that actually enables the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have a public TV service of their country unlike those commercial televisions, commercial actions that are mainly charged by commercial actions themselves related to that television. So public radio, public television, must meet a clear and accurate requirement, be television and radio for all or for every citizen in the country where they operate and by their programme they actually address all citizens regardless of their age, education or purchasing power. Today, in your exposé in the morning, you were actually talking about all these reports since 2016 and for 2017, 2018, it is true that on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, individual representatives have been unfavourable and I agree because these reports came quite late but, of course, it is definitely not your fault. You, as director of HRT, brought here and data related to income, expenditure, operation of HRT itself, and I think you did as much as possible during that period to maintain such a public service and yet that those working and working in that public service would be satisfied but also, on the other hand, produced a program in their own production. So the heart of the public service in me is an information program and it has to be forte of actually HRT. As far as I'm concerned, I am television and I love all the programs, all the HRT programs suit me, from the First, Second, Third and Fourth, I may watch the third program the most, but I have no special grudges on the HRT programme itself. Of course, it was good to hear the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament and you as head director because there could be read and listen to everything that clubs actually say about HRT's work, what they are not satisfied with, you have now seen from the presentation of my colleague Culei, the emotions he has for certain things and all these things should be respected. How much, as well as how certain things on HRT will agree and meet the demands of citizens, it is up to you and to the editors on HRT. What my colleagues may have said less without repeating myself, I am particularly pleased with the fact that after 4 years we opened correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, the truth that the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has won me around 11 million kuna, but you must and you are aware that only that satellite program that you pay is somewhere around 6 million kuna. It may not mean that much to us in Croatia, but believe me, to people from New Zealand to Canada, from Sweden to South America, it means a lot, what they can see from HRT, they really praise and praise. For them, it's important, for them, to grow up their children and every kuna we put into that direction, it's not much, and it brings me trust me, multiple results or multiple gains, I could elaborate here for a long time, but I don't want to hold on to it. So Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, if you will, in my opinion, are the strategic point of the Republic of Croatia and all that we can do through public service, our public service is good and I commend it, so I am glad that after 4 years we opened correspondence in both Sarajevo and Mostar and I think it is important and it is very, very important. As for the program itself and what you're doing to HRT, I don't know if the colleagues have talked about it, but the fact is that all you're earning, it's also visible from these reports, you're actually turning it back into a program. So the whole amount and all the funds are being converted back into the programme. Public television and what to read, in production and documentary and dramatic, educational, children's programme is actually doing it from these funds and it is necessary to do it and I think they are very good programs. On the other hand, it must satisfy those postulates of stability, be stable, be independent, be transparent and in fact proportionate in some way. To actually talk about these HRT postulates followed by the HRT Act and everything it needs to do, it's not a simple job, we're aware of that, especially today that we have some new platforms that further make things difficult on HRT. So, with strong people on HRT, professionals better said, professional people who are there, we need to take great care of that. I know that it is very difficult for you as the principal director to reach that balance in the public service, because both editors and employees would like better standards and higher wages and better equipment and better offices, but today in the replica, I am glad that you responded to that replica, so people we may not see in relation to journalists and who work in that technical work and you are also somehow emotionally related to that part, so both installers and tons and low-income cameras, are hardly going to keep them and they're actually leaving. We're out of people, we're out of professionals, it's hard to create them. So they're going to have to think in that direction, to keep these people, to be stimulated, and to actually be so stimulated along with journalists, they produce an even better program. Today I told you something else, you may not have been able to say it because of the shortness of time, so often visiting our HRT center in Split, but I think we should think about whether we are a tourist town, there are often foreign guests in that studio, sometimes because of certain things that can happen, fire, but also some other disasters, we are forced to invite them to this studio, I think we should give the impression of a polite and organized state, and that is actually a picture of us in the world, so I would like you to think about it as much as possible in accordance with the nature and financial possibilities of HRT. Forgetting certain things that HRT has done very well "A Strana" I particularly like, "The Voice" and what you did at the World Cup, and also following Croatian football players from Ples to Trg Ban Jelačić here in Zagreb with some things that people are not happy about and know some more information than I do, I think it followed almost 2 million people, as far as the Republic of Croatia, and I think so, so much abroad. Following such a program professionally done, acceptable to the public and what the public actually wanted you to do. I'd love to do things like that, we're a small country, we're a small country, when I think, by numbers, big in people, but things like that should have lasted a lot longer, so it's not like you're going to be second in the World Cup, it's not that it's that, that's how much people's interest is in one such event, an event that brings you closer together, an event that gives you one pride, one hope, you've done it professionally, but I'd like it to last longer, not just for you and some other institutions. So, you don't need to ignore and commend all those people who don't just work on that case, but on all those, I say, documentary excellent programs, drama programs, children's programs, educational programs, which actually create public change. Given the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is present today, and I primarily think of the social climate, the social climate of synergy in this society, I would like to see a lot more formatted emissions on this subject, in order to break down certain taboos in Croatian society, or talk more about positive things that are really in my opinion and inspires people with more positiveism without soullessness, without lethargy, without certain hope that are actually negative phenomena in Croatian society and affect people. That's why I think and believe That you're going to do this for too. [[Intruder: Thank you]] to learn certain lessons... [[Employee: Representative, time's up]] about those things. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185761	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Žagar reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185762	Thank you, Vice President HS, the Honorable Director, with associate, colleague and colleague, I will try to make the most important point in a brief discussion, the aspect of this report as I see it and finally a proposal or a suggestion to the principal or perhaps to make an application. Namely, the most important part of this report as I see it is the financial part and the money that is an integral part of this report is actually money that ensures the functioning of public television, HRT and Croatian Radio and those parts that belong next to that house. Therefore, at the beginning of the debate itself one important thing, the public interest should be satisfied always there when the market does not need to take place in that area, where the market of state or public interest ceases and the state is obliged to ensure that this public interest is fulfilled. The state provided this with the Law on HRT, which is then financed by HRT, mostly from the fee paid by citizens and thus collected, in the last year according to the data you provided in the report, billions and 205 million kuna, that is, the money that came from the fee. The next important item in HRT's revenue is advertising amounting to 87 million kuna. The key question is, can HRT fight commercial television? And even if they didn't know the financial indicators could already say very hard, very hard in the beginning because public television must fulfil all those tasks defined by the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are controlled by the programme council and which it is obliged to respect and which ultimately, at the end of each year, is also controlled by what is the programme council's grudge, they say they can only control what happened, not what will be in the future. So, HRT has clear, clear tasks that must be fulfilled and in this sense has huge money in relation to commercial television and that money, of course, as we see from the report, you've already pointed out, you've already spent not only that, but in previous years and you've been in debt, and now you're part of this profit, you're covering, covering previous, previous losses. So this result of 87 million kuna for advertising is not so bad, it's not so bad given the limitations you have, I think it's 9 minutes in, in a regular program and 4 minutes in a prime time that's legally restricted. In the report you cited the reasons why some advertisers go to commercial televisions, most often because of here and now because of these sporting events that get other TVs or other reasons, but that, I say again, that result is not so bad. If he can be improved, that's the key question. Public television, and this is actually in previous debates when we talked about the subject, today it has matured in the debate, I see it, the key question is what is most important in public television, ratings or respect for these interests that are defined both by law and public interest. Now, is it an interest for the public to produce a show from the field of education and science, so to broadcast that show in the late hours of the night when, in fact, few people look at it and justify that we can't broadcast it sooner because ratings would be small. And that's where we come into conflict and I believe that those people who think about it come into a kind of conflict with those two to say different interests. One is a commercial that is supported by ratings, and the other is public. Now, I'm going to bring up that application I made at the beginning. The HRT has been asked to complete the women's.../incomprehensible/... therefore box matches that are highly watched and carried both men's finals and in the veteran category, to carry women's finals. HRT simply deafened to that application. The citizens who have asked did not even get an answer, it is not right, it is not right because I say if public television represents the interests of the public among others and the sports programme, so she cares about young people and everything she should care about. And there's this important difference between public and commercial television. The second thing I would like to mention is that this report only mentions itself in the table but is not particularly highlighted, and that is, it is all the employees that it has in HRT 2,780 employees employed in HRT. So if we look at the salaries of these tech and production employees, there's a gross salary there on average as calculated by about 10,000 kuna. As far as the pay average program is concerned, I'm talking about gross wages is about 15,000 kuna. However, we come up with one worrying piece of data again in business, there is the largest share with the medium professional capacity of 146 employees, there is a gross salary of around 6,393 kuna. Therefore, significant deviations from these salaries in other, in other business units. I suppose there are even workers on HRT who are less paid. The largest of course is the largest in the business management unit there even climbs to 20,000 kuna gross although a small number of employees. Let's go back to the tax revenue itself. A billion 205 million kunas. The key question is, I asked you in the replica today. If there are, if there's room chief director, it's not this populism it's simply fundamental issues. In Croatia, a large number of citizens are at risk of poverty, and you know that too, the State Statistics Institute shows that. We have additional health insurance, we have HRT subscription, when we add up the yearly indeed in many pensioners it's the height of one pension. Is there room for these most sensitive groups to increase the censorship to free at least part of the payment up to 50%? We in the bill of law that you have heard today from colleagues of Hrelja predict that these censorships are like supplemental health insurance 2,340 kuna for a single man and 1,830 kuna per member of the family, to free them from 50% payment of HRT fees, and all who have less than 1,500 kuna to free them completely. In this solution so far, we have 50% to get rid of them. The team would be covered by the current solution, somewhere around 16,000 people are covered by this 50% reduction, and this would include 150-200,000 people of the poorest of the Republic of Croatia. That would be at the level of the year about 100 million kuna. And now I'm going back to the question from the beginning. Any HRT vision, any personnel, I believe there are, that these 100 million kunas are found through advertising. So that's where the extra effort is made, the extra steps of this step. There are various mechanisms perhaps, of course, crossing the framework of this debate. I don't want to, I don't want to be here as people say too smart, so I'm now giving you lessons of some kind, solutions instant overnight, but I certainly believe that HRT has people who might be more able to account for it so that these revenues can be increased so that the poorest citizens of HRT can be released significantly. I once again emphasized, believe me, it's not about populistism, it's really about the poorest layer of the population. That's what I said today in the replica, it's not about, I paraphrased that actor from the commercial, it's not about people not giving, it's just that they don't. And HRT would, in that sense, together with the rest of society with everyone who can influence in any way, fight poverty in Croatian society. Poverty is at the door, and it really eats up many households. And in that sense, here's an appeal to you that you really do everything on your part to make the revenues come another way, and release this part of paying the fee for the poorest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185763	Zeljko Lenart has asked for an individual debate on this subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185764	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Director, HRT, HRT should be the pride of the Croatian nation, citizens living in the Republic of Croatia, should be the first choice in remote when you take your hand to squeeze, but unfortunately it has long, long not. For what? For many reasons that have put her in a position that she is a bit of the last choice you will press on the remote control even though she has four programs today. HRT revenues are around 1.4 billion kuna, of which 1.2 billion revenues are paid by citizens. That makes 85% of HRT's income. However, to those who pay for work, employees, the content does not apply in this way as if it were so. Unfortunately, some make fun of HRT and then says one article, the title of the article says, by launching the 5th HRT programme, HRT will officially have more channels than viewers. That something wrong with HRT is also saying that after three years we are only discussing HRT reports, which implies whether the ruling colour of the debate on HRT or something rotted in the state of Denmark, as the verse puts it. Unfortunately, there is no investigative journalism on HRT, we do not have any show on these four programmes to talk about the current problems that affect this Croatian people, about crime, corruption, about the injustices that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are experiencing in this country, which are essentially powerless and we are witnessing that only the work of investigative journalists succeed in solving some of the enigma that have happened. Well, here's a recent case where a drama artist at the theater died in a car accident, and until one of the TVs revealed what happened, it was essentially what it was about. There's a lot of material here, but HRT doesn't think that's how it should be. Why? They know best. There was a 13-year "Croatian Live" show, she talked about some social issues, injustices, and so, but then one morning it was said that she will no longer be, "Labirint" was in some way euthanized, it was transferred to HRT 4. We have to admit that there are good shows on HRT, good documentaries, except it's a tragedy? The tragedy is that because HRT got such a reputation, people rarely move on to one of the HRT programs and look at it. I have to admit that sometimes I happen to find myself on HRT channels, so I look at some documentaries that are really quality and some other shows that are quality offices of our experts. Because of all this, our citizens are wondering why we pay the fee to HRT? Which is why HRT also invents new ways of charging fees and then also charges radio receivers in vehicles, so in tractors, now imagine that you have at home, pay television and you have to pay even more in the tractor. Well, look, when I'm sitting in a tractor, I'm not safe at home. Is there such a desire for these means that unfortunately are untransparently deployed? Maybe they're writing reports that they're transparent then, but I'm not so sure. The purchase of software content from external productions is carried out by direct contract and competition. It is tragic that direct contracts buy already broadcast content on some other televisions or buy bad quality material, which then turns out to be overpaid. There are a lot of programs that buy and break the cultural standard on HRT, then there are even cancellations of some shows that aren't even on the level, which leaves for discussion and doubt as to who or how the HRT programs are edited and who determines what will be displayed on HRT programs. What I find most tragic is this recent review of the state of HRT, a German radio that published a 50-minute report on HRT "as in Sj. Korea’. It is cited as a frightening example of what public service can turn into. This has a greater weight by not saying it to anyone in Croatia than someone who's really objective, who came from an orderly society, where they don't think of some of the things that happen in our country, and I think it's a great weight, far greater than all of our discussions, than all the critics who criticize HRT. The journalist says she's shocked by the way she works on HRT and the censorship that rules there. He says there is no co-ordination between different newsrooms, no editorial colleges, only protocol news about what the government and the president are doing is being monitored in the information program. So when you watch HRT, the breaking news, it's not far from that. The journalist says that journalists are also demoted to explore interesting topics. And as I said before, interesting topics in the Republic of Croatia are really not missing. Says the same journalist and that the government's official agenda is identical to the agenda of editors-in-chief at HRT. The most important thing is not to blame the ruling, I quote. It may be irrelevant to someone and this journalist, perhaps it is irrelevant to the rulings or to those who run HRT, which is spoken by a journalist from a German radio, but we must remember that the Germans are one of the most important tourists in the Republic of Croatia, that the Republic of Croatia is making a significant contribution to its budget from these German tourists, and then I think it should be very important for us that the Germans or their journalists think about our strongest media, the national media, the HRT. 50 minutes when someone is talking about the catastrophic state, about the lack of democracy, about that even the ruling should no longer intervene to the press that the editors themselves are doing it if something is wrong and we have seen through all these election processes that are happening, through the shows that are being recorded, that we are very far from democracy. Here there are 151 MPs from all over the Republic of Croatia and from the diaspora, from different parties, I think I can say very rarely that they have had the opportunity to express their views on HRT because HRT does not matter what they have to say to the national representatives of the Croatian parliament who are btw. elected in one way or another by the Croatian people, by those who pay 1.2 billion for Croatia's fees, of which everything on HRT is paid and of all salaries. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185765	Anka's representative, Mr. Taritash, has answered the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185766	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lenart, at the very beginning of your presentation, you put the subject of investigative journalism. Research journalism is extremely important, it's important for reasons to answer certain questions, certain dilemmas, and then you asked yourself why it's not on HRT. So maybe for the first time, because these investigative journalists should do everything we've had to see happening on HRT, what we have the opportunity to see through a letter from a German journalist who was and who's talking about how editors are doing something, so maybe that investigative journalism you mentioned isn't an accident that he's gone because we should first explore everything that's going on on on HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185767	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185768	Well, you've noticed this well, colleague Dark Taritash. I'd like to see that HRT with all these resources and all these material resources i.e. The budget, it has a newsroom for investigative journalism because with these resources, they could bring far more interesting stories than they bring these other commercial televisions, they could expose a lot more injustices than we can see in this investigative journalism today. HRT would thus certainly regain the confidence of its citizens because citizens would appreciate that this HRT becomes independent and that it does not have untouchable and that it can make contributions to all regardless of which political option they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185769	Representative Ljubic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185770	Thank you. Dear counterpart Lenart, did the government's agenda to iron your President Beljak's image after his scandalous statement that the UDBA did not kill enough dissidents, then 3, 4 days later, gets the "Opportion Point" on Croatian Radio and a week after that or two weeks after that, a visit to the strike show "Sunday at 2"? So is the Croatian government's agenda a scandalous contribution to the "Labirint" show a few days ago when filming one abandoned and abandoned village in Baranja, for all the problems that occur in that village, accused Plenkovic's ministers who allegedly do not know what they have and apparently the appearance of the village shows that it has failed for decades, long ago both these and previous governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185771	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185772	In my debate, I was not just talking about those who are members of the HSS, officials or our sympathisers, I was talking about all the citizens of this republic and even those of BiH that you are representing, and you are not representing them here now, we are talking about them paying this public service with a billion and 200 000 kuna and HRT from the donations of the budget, EU donations and advertisements and others, with only 200 million kuna. I'm talking about them, so you let Cressa Beljak go, Cresso Beljak knows how to defend himself and knows what he says and what he says, and he doesn't need you to be a lawyer, and he doesn't need to be a HRT. If he didn't have anything to say on "Sunday at 2", he wouldn't be on that show three times already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185773	Representative Misic reported for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185774	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Director of Television. I'm glad we're discussing television today. It is absurd to discuss 2016, 2017, which has long been past, which you were not even the director and there is no need to mention it. Of course, we're discussing television today, yesterday, which was last year, and that's the point of these discussions. But here we are, we are always late because this archive that was before, 2016, 2017, is already dusting on them but that's how it's done. Public television is the television of the Croatian people and the Croatian people follows what you offer to the Croatian people. Whether Croatian people are satisfied with public television, I could say it's not much. Of course, I won't criticize that everything's wrong but there are some things that aren't good. Maybe it would be a good poll to go out every few months, do a survey, ask among the citizens what they would like and how much they would like a show and what kind of shows on TV. Looking at these years that I've watched TV and while you haven't been complete HRT, I could say we're not satisfied for a lot of reasons. A lot of censored films, censored people who work there, cancellations of certain people they got, those people who wanted to talk about the truth about the Croatian state and Croatian problems. These people weren't alike and don't let God talk about '45. or in those relations. So this film by Jacob Sedlar, which was the best film seen in Croatia, is banned. The question of why it's forbidden if the people want to watch it and if it's all true about it, it's actually true. Looking at the emigrants that the Croats have around 4 million of us out there, which they get, they get late, in the late evenings, some short films with 10 million I heard that, to finance them, 6 million just repetitors you can pay and send, compared to 4 billion kunas received by HRT, about 85% of Croatian citizens. Of course there should be much more, much more, much more, and here's one from Switzerland, the lady asked why some important immigration laws aren't on HRT, that they be informed of what's happening to them, I don't know, in Switzerland, Australia and so on. That's probably not gonna happen. Second thing, you have offices in Mostar, in Sarajevo, I'm talking about BiH where I come from, you have offices, I don't see much of the work. There are also positive things in BiH, we will not only talk about negative ones, about Croatians who have made good companies, who work well with Croatia, how much Croatia exports products to BiH and BiH is the biggest importer of actually Croatian products and what little Bosnia is given, we talk through those 10 million but it is for all Croats, not just for Bosnia, I consider the minimum of Croatia's income on BiH. I come down from Posavina, but I'd like a little bit of HRT to be more involved in that part of the suffering people that was harassed in II. svt. The war today, even today tormented, evicted, evicted. When we talk about it, the other day there was a nice show on RTL where they went to visit some farmer who had a farm, who for 10 years couldn't get any incentives to rebuild his farm that was destroyed and so on. You have hundreds and hundreds of examples in Bosnia's Posavina. It would be nice if you didn't have these TVs in Sarajevo and Mostar, you didn't have in Tuzla or Bosnian Posavina where you should go more often, see how these people live. You've got up around the Prijedor, you've got up the Sanski Bridge, here the other day I've got information that one family is picking mushrooms to survive, Croats of course live in the hills, children going through the woods where they have, where wolves attack and so on and so on, we don't talk. And these problems should be explained by HRT and looked at the Croatian people in Croatia, the Croatian people in fact, those who were not born in BiH, do not know how Croats live in Bosnia and what are Croats in Bosnia. That's what HRT has to show for it. The other day I was at a meeting where we have our forts in BiH that all Croats in 1200, 400, 600 all fixed the same year. We Croats do not know that in Croatia, it should also be the history of Croatia not only BiH. As in Srebrenica, Doboj, Banja Luka, Jajc, Ljubusko and so, so many of the quiet forts of the Croatians in Bosnia, it is the history of Croatia in BiH. And what's going on here? That history has failed Yugoslavia and now Croatia. Why am I talking to Yugoslavia? The man who doctored history, history and archaeology, he did not study those fortifications of Croatia because it was not only about the acquisitions of some Croatian, shamefully that we in Croatia do not know both Croatian people and Croatian students. How is that possible but in us everything is possible when it comes to Croatian interests, what are our interests in BiH? I'm totally talking, big because Bosnia is the cradle of Croatianism. If I go in, I won't talk about history, we'll talk about television. Of course, television should be monitored, filmed and placed on HRT to see Croatian people in Croatia. Of course, even in Bosnia, they don't even know what it is. There's another problem, there's very little talk of war, that's what you say when Vukovar falls, and so is some but that's what you should talk about, about '91. Sir, it must be made clear what's going on, although there have been movies, I won't say it isn't, but it should be much more. Watching Partisan films, it offends the Croatian people already because the five-pointer killed Croats according to the fact that the less they almost should not be. One more thing, sport, we sport just don't have on HRT, football and everything else, why not, I can't say. I'm asking you the same question. When the Croatian team came to Zagreb, who is this man who turned off the tone when they spoke and when they spoke and sang Thompson and when Dalic was upstairs? Who is this man? Is that man off the air? Did it come out in public? It's not. If Brenna had accidentally turned off the tone in Arena, it was a miracle, everyone would have attacked, wouldn't it be possible, who sang the same to the Chetniks, who betrayed her people in the war and came here to sing but no one turned her off... Thompson where he's coming in, that's where he closes up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who is this person and why? I'd like to know, of course. I personally think that there are good things on television, not all so bad, you have a radio that I often listen to while driving a car that I can also praise, there are nice shows, and it would actually Croatians want to watch, we would like to watch more about the history of Croats, about the crimes that the partisans after the war got fixed, in my Posavina they killed over 11,000, in one village they killed down around Modric, that amendment already spoke, 558 people in one day, in one barn. No one in the village has experienced their grandfather, and you have the destiny of Savina for as long as you want. These are the truths, until we speak to this Croatian people about the truths, we will be constantly in error. Of course that truth these lefts don't want because it touches them, the truth helps me, and every man only truth can help, no lie. When this Croatian people, when Croatia... We need to talk about the truths, and about Jasenovac, but the truth, and about Bleiburg, but the truth and all the truth, we're going to get rid of any questions because we're not going to talk about it, we're just going to talk about the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian people wanted it, the Croatian people died for this country for the truth because they did not give theirs, we did not cross over to Serbia and attack Serbs. Today we look at the policies of Belgrade, politics and local politicians of Serbian nationality and others, I have nothing against them, but gentlemen, you are a minority here, not just them, and everyone else, you have to respect this country where you live and enjoy living and I have no one but you are willing to respect it as we respect Germany, America, Australia and wherever we live and we are a respected people. That's what I want from the others. All rights but respect, we've turned everything around so everyone can fill us up and we can't do that. Whatever they say to me on that subject, then we'd be against minorities, no, God forbid, let's give them the benefit of it, but please choose to respect us. We have Chetnik monuments, take pictures of them, put on TV to clearly see the Croatian people what this country has done that they haven't taken down the same thing. This would not have happened in any country in the world democratically so that someone who attacked could place their monuments but in the country of Croatia it can be interesting, no one asks them questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185775	Thank you. I thank you for your presentation, Agent Culey has requested a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185776	Dear fellow Muscle, you're all right. Aca Bogdanovic died, Nikolic Dragan died, Josif Tatic died, some Simic died, Sinan Sakic died, Saban Saulic died, Dobrica Cosic died, and it passed on to HRT and when the legend of Posavika Ilija Begic died, he died 2. Six. 2018, no words and our Posavia and everyone has to pay a fat subscription to HRT, you know how long that's gonna be? While our editors on HRT are characters like Dennis Latin, who on the photo of the stamp on the anniversary of our President F. Tudjman's death, wrote on Face, kicked out after a short use, the people didn't know which side to spit on. How long are such editors going to grumble on the HRT that we're paying for?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185777	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185778	Thank you. Comrade Culej, you have all said in this answer, of course when a legend of Croatians dies, when the legend of Croatians who fought in this Croatian state ends, it is not to be talked about, it is anonymous. General Stipetic died so nothing happened, even so it went without some kind of pomp as some others died and so many pompous lifts and I don't know, so many of our warriors died and so many... Individuals have the right to spit them today and in this Croatian state, and they would all put them under the rug so they wouldn't want to talk about it, gentlemen, that's what we should talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be discussed and condemned by all criminals who have committed a crime in Croatia and beyond in BiH and beyond. When we do, we'll have an order and a rule of law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185779	Representative Ljubic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185780	Dear Mišić, so I agree with the biggest part of the messages is from your debate, especially those concerning informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and I also spoke about it myself in my individual debate and in part and critically. However, I would now like to say that HRT as a public television and as it is, in fact, the only television in Croatia that covers all the spectrum of one so as to say societies such as Croatian, and that is why it is also necessary to strengthen these critical debates that are heard here today in the Assembly, should in fact be focused and understood by the people of HRT in a way that our interest to make this television better and be able to satisfy all the complexity and diversity of the interests of Croatian society and, of course, we as a Parliament and Government should continue to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185781	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185782	Thank you. My colleague Ljubic, I hope that this is all a process and a struggle and I hope that television will advance, I don't doubt it, and I think that we are going in a little better direction but very slowly, in the end, the people here chose us to fight for the people, that we are talking instead of the people because we are representatives of the people here and I hope that television should be what the Croatian people want, which is actually television for the people, respecting minorities in any case, it should be extremely said, and all the crimes that I have already said, clearly public and say no matter who it hurts or hurts, it should be said and of course that television will be going in a better direction than it was before and what was before the furniture when the director had a hotel that he didn't report, and he didn't know that there't have a hotel somewhere up in Slovenia, I guess I know so much and remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185783	The final word on behalf of the club MOST independent lists will be presented by MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185784	Thank you very much. Here, we could have heard a lot of questions from your esteemed director, but we haven't received the answers yet, so I believe you will take advantage of the opportunity to answer these numerous answers, you have in your debate boasted with great welcomes, events that took place as an example of the welcome of the Croatian team, mentioning here the exclusion and microphones i.e. sounding to Mark Perkovic Thompson, it was in the organization of the city, it seems to me Zagreb, and here, fellow Mišić before I start, it is best to ask SDP's child, i.e. SK Čedo, SDP's child and HDZ farm Milan Bandic, which is why it is excluded,... Which is why the speaker was turned off then, he probably knows it well, because obviously in all these times he learned this mode of action at a given time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we settled this, and since Zagreb was the organizer of this event, let's resolve this about the mention of counterpart Culej and fellow Mišic, who is at the club Milan Bandic. As far as this debate is concerned, it is evident to the Director that you have not completed your mission and that you are everything but the director of HRT public service. The fact is that you got into fear in that house, fear of firing journalists, you raise as if you were a state lawyer, as if you were a public prosecutor 30, 40 years ago, who basically haunts journalists for a spoken word. I've listed certain journalists, certain emissions shut down, so "Croatian Live" has been shut down, one show that has been monitored, which has also had social issues, not just political topics, and I expect that in the future we have one director who will edit HTV in a way that modernises as prescribed. What HTV has no one, has the foundations of the Croatian State, the Homeland War, I said that the war cameraman Gordan Lederer who gave his life and numerous other war cameramen, my friend Petar Malbaš and everyone else gave themselves, instead of the rifles they carried cameras and it was in the world about Serb crimes, so I think that archive you have, confirmed I have information of your legal service in 2017, but you do not want to sign it until today to preserve that archive. ... it seems to me the project "Honor of Homeland", it's in agreement with the former vd director, you as I don't see it, I've only seen your justification that this will be done at the same time, but if there is a way and a model for us to archive this most modern way, to protect and to see that these very videos of HTV we see in numerous private studies, other TV houses, and in fact it's the property of us, our public television. But unfortunately, I'm afraid a number of these materials ended up in garbage cans because of their carelessness. So be the director of public television and protect the foundations of the state. Of course, when we talk about journalists, I also mentioned the contributions, about the field war HTV has the most about the part of Croats outside the country in BiH, so Croats who are the same people with the other two peoples absolutely media are not protected and it is not just your fault, but obviously the system does not worry about it. We have problems with our national minorities where they are persecuted as examples in Vojvodina where our Croats have a huge problem with the persecution of people such as the war criminal Seselj, very little we get reports from these areas. There are a number of topics in the Republic of Croatia that must be in public service, you have a material technical means much better than other commercial televisions, but you do not perform your best role. First your promise, you said what you were gonna do to cut the subscription and go towards the suspension, you didn't do it. You have absolutely not fulfilled any of your obligations at the end of the term of this assembly except that you have brought fear into the bones of everyone in HTV, everyone working on TV with your persecution of journalists and you have introduced censorship and you have essentially disgraced the public service both in Croatia and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185785	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Time's up. Representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We really need to change Croatia, and here in this sense I want to say something final about this debate today and emphasize what is most important and some of the things I did in my debate before I said. So, HTV, if we call it a public service, then there must really be such an impartial institution that must not be the maid of the ruling policy, the ruling political structure, which will not be the prime minister of Malta in the morning, we citizens listen good morning to the prime minister, good day to the prime minister, good night to the prime minister and all that dawn but as much as there is in the ruling party. It's the kind of HRT we don't need, you have to change. I know it's hard for you because people work there, they live on it, but you have to do something. We will support you in the Parliament. In the next election, there will be no more, I am deeply convinced with the help of the citizens that we will change that. There are good shows on HRT, "The Voice of Croatia" when I hear these young people so it's amazing in our country how many beautiful voices there are, so where they practice I'm just fascinated, "The Fruits of the Earth", there are more documentaries that are good "Labirint" means there are good things. Interesting things on HRT are obviously reserved for people, as they say, who also love serious music, science, culture, etc., but lack live emissions. But what you're doing besides saying that you're a machine for the production of blocked and finished, twice a year, you have about 50,000 each semester, you're sending an execution to the citizens, which means about 100,000 a year, so you wrote in your plan that you're not going to be a law firm now, so you need to hire 70 people to make you pay your debts to those citizens who haven't paid 200, 300, 400 kuna, and you're estimating their cost at 20 to 25 million kuna because you need space. So give me a minute to think economically, I think no one would do that to my student that kind of procedure either. So, there's nothing wrong with that system. On the other hand, we citizens each year pay you one billion kuna, and you still owe the banks a debt of 440 million, you owe the banks 300 million kuna. Well, it's a bottomless bag. So, no increase in the fee can help you because you can't put a bag without a bottom on it. Well, my fellow citizens, I think you've had enough of this, too, so this Javaluk, and that's how billions of you spend it. This system has to live, it has to live on what it gets, it's huge money. How you're going to do this, you need to do an integrated restructuring, we have experts who know how to do it in Croatia. But, of course, this policy, this ruling coalition, and it hasn't been better before, it's just, you're an ideal system, the more capillaryly bound these people, it's a voting base, the machinery, it's, it's not everybody, I'm talking about the economy, you have one editor of economics, it's economics, it knows exactly who they're not going to call. Look, there is no debate about the economy, cooperation with the EU, the euro, the problems of agriculture, it calls exactly the same people, but since you owe the banks 300 million kuna, then they're obviously one way, of course, I won't tell you publicly, they give you a signal, don't call this one, but also when you, please, make a list of minutes, which are agents, do it tomorrow and write to me that I'm a liar, that I'm not telling the truth. As much as there is left in your program, as he spoke in the economy, I'm not talking to myself, we have very good young economists in various economic colleges, you have a loud word from the economy being kept by the main economists from the banks. But you owe 300 million kunas to the banks. 290 and something. You can't, listen, that one, you know how to say the hand you're getting, looking, it's always under the hand that gives and isn't there, you just have to figure it out. HRT can be placed on sound financial economic feet, but with political management, with perhaps insufficient professional people who work will never work, because therefore, we will have to arrange it as God commands.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185787	On behalf of the rapporteur, Kazimir Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185788	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. We heard a whole day's debate about HRT today. Namely, I would briefly report that this report is the subject of 2016, 2017 and 2018. In this past period, I would like to stress that, primarily, HRT fulfils its obligations under the Treaty with the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a restrictive cost policy in all segments with a view to achieving a positive financial outcome and creating its own sources of financing. If it reduces credit debt, that, for and with the retention of a high level of investment in software content, both in material assets and therefore, it would also point out that, with the reduction of the number of workers. Here we talked about various segments of the income and expenditure side. As far as the revenue side is concerned, I would point out that everything, all incomes are very regulated by the Law on HRT and other laws both in terms of limiting marketing space in prime time, i.e. in time, and in all other segments of income. So in the past period to which this report relates, HRT increased efficiency, reduced the number of employees, all year long business with profits, we said in 2016. 30 million kuna profits, in 2017 when I took over the mandate 100 million profits, 2018. 81 million kunas get and the estimate for this year will be the same as 100 million kunas. Yes, it should be pointed out that all this profit is directly used to resuscitate the transferred loss that was here, there are various figures being used here today, but the transferred loss in 2016 was 587 million kuna exactly, 588. It was then reduced to 549 in 2017 and in 2018 it was reduced to 444 and in the last year it was very likely around 358, which means that practically this transferred loss was reduced even faster than planned. We were talking about credit duty here. In 2016, the credit rating amounted to HRK 350 million, 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 297 and for 2019 is estimated to be about 200 million kuna, 206 million kuna. This means that the tendency is very clear and that the debts are returning that were made during the previous period. What I would like to point out is that there is another element, a lot has been said here about the participation of HRT, or how we, as HRT participated in the discharge of the payment of the fee. Namely, there are two laws. The law on the write-off of debts to natural persons and the Law on the implementation of the law on cash assets. Based on these two laws, the total effect of applying these two laws to HRT is less than 271 million kuna. So he participated in, so he made a contribution in terms of unloading and in terms of reducing the burden. As for these, these were business and financial reports, there were a lot of words here about the software content that I listened carefully and wrote there on my reminder so that I believe that this debate was useful in this sense, that it could always seek to improve the programme, but HRT produces a variety of programs, a programme that is intended for different age groups of different content, and would end up stressing that according to EBU research or European Union public television, HRT is located in the top 1/5 efficient and watched television public services. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185789	Representative Babic called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185790	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my debate, I haven't been able to ask you that, but now I want to do this final presentation. Can you actually influence the fact that journalists on HRT speak in a standard Croatian language without speaking, for example, jargon or dialectally, especially in the case of multi-complex folders when emphasising the unknown, Dalmatia, Slavonia, Varazdin, instead of Dalmatia, Varazdin, Slavonia, etc., I think that it irritates some people and at least those messages or electronic messages that we get, we get for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185791	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185792	Dear Representative, HRT is extremely concerned about language and speech both on the radio and on television. Of course, such a situation can even be improved, we are making efforts to make it happen and it is one of the topics discussed on the programme council and we, as management and I, as head director, will do everything possible to make the standard language, literaryly as much use as possible, or to make it as high-quality and linguistic expression as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185793	This concludes the debate. Excuse me. MP Lovrinovic also requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185794	Here, Mr. Bačić, I've been reading the messages of the citizens who are following us, watching HRT, what you've been reporting, what are the people who are working with you, said something in this debate today, someone from HDZ, SDP, HNS, someone from Most, I guess you're letting them go because if they were to support HDZ for the tenth time, Shkybol, Alexic, me, us, out of opposition as if God hadn't given us today in this House, so here's the story, let's do at least one thing, let's not ask for me, right? And another thing, a suggestion. Let's start together the law here to change this law, so that the pensioners don't pay the fee up to 3,000 kn, the students per home, the dormitories and the disabled of all kinds not to pay the tax, don't let HRT remain a machine for manufacturing performances, 100,000 of them per year. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185795	This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-13-0.u185796	2016 HRT business report The applicant shall be the head director of the HRT. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2016 HRT Business Report is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for and 22 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee, and the Committee on Information and Information and Media proposes that HS draw a conclusion that reads: It undertakes the HRT to draw up a plan to reduce credit debt, streamline the costs of business, reduce the costs of external co-workers and increase the efficiency of the work of permanent employees, and implement the restructuring. I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion, please let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for, 1 abstention and 6 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
