ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9751	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative of Domagoj Price will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9752	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed vice president of HS. Today I wanted to use free speech to talk about a subject that is not political or minimally political, which we are talking about, is the return of research and development taxes. Throughout history, the development of science and technology was the foundation and driver of development, leading to the growth of human standards, to social progress and to the development of civilization. That is why it would be good if we could speed up this development or the development of science and technology. But what can politics do? What politics can do is encourage development through tax reliefs to invest in research and development. It is in Croatia 2018. The Act on Investment Encouragement is prescribed to encourage the return of profit tax for investment in R & D. Unfortunately, six months later, there was a rule book waiting, but after that, it moved on. Unfortunately, I couldn't find a good part of the data that's been made since then, how much amounts have been invested in this way, how much money has been paid back to the companies, whether or not the positive examples stemming from this law are known. It should also consider whether the refunds should apply only to the profit tax or whether all the taxes that companies make to the state should be considered, i.e. on different contributions and on various parafiscal charges. In Croatia, less than 1% of GDP is currently invested in research and development annually, approximately 2% of the EU's GDP is invested in research and development, while in developed Sweden 3.5% is therefore four times higher than in Croatia. The return of money for research and development would be good for the Croatian economy, it would be good for the employment rate in Croatia, it would also be important for the modernisation of society but also for the state. But we always have to look at it on the other hand, on the human side, for example. The development of science and technology would help develop and treat diseases. For example. In case five years from now, a cure is found to save lives, and in case we had a faster development of science and technology, if today this drug was found, we would have saved all those lives that might be lost from today to, for example. Five years from now. In this way, by developing science and technology, we save people's lives, so there is, of course, that one human view. Let's just look at the progress of the last 10, 20, 50 or 100 years that people's lives have changed, how much better they live, how much standard they've grown, let's just look at the extension of human life. Back in the '40s, '50s, this was already considered an age, today in Croatia, but also in developed countries, people live on average for almost 80 years, and somewhere longer than that. All this progress, of course, has not made any policy, most of this progress has led to the development of science and technology that would be good to further encourage. As a small country, I think it would be good to take advantage of this opportunity, that this law that was passed to implement in reality, I think it would be a good incentive for the Croatian economy, and I also think that although we are a small country, our share of the world's population is small and our share of the world's GDP is small, I think that if we continue to think that this would be good for Croatia, but I think that would be good and global. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9904	The next club of representatives is the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9905	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Do you know what the Golden Kuna is? I suppose everyone knows what the kuna is, Kuna is our currency, our money used in our country of Croatia, which is at all costs trying to get rid of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and replace it with some kind of euro. And Zlatna Kuna is a prize each year awarded by HGK to the best economies, the best companies in Croatia, and it is awarded in several categories for small enterprises, for medium, for great, for innovation, for life achievement. And since Croatia's largest and best and safest employers are large political parties in power in the country, it is our HDZ and local in many cities, municipalities and counties, but also in the SDP, I think that these two parties would have to win the Golden Kun this year because they are the best, safest employers, except that I would have given them the Golden Kun, I would have united it, and in several categories, for the biggest businesses, for innovation, but also for life's work, so that everything is covered that the right way would be valued or rewarded. Today we're talking and talking about the revision of local self-government, and then we're gonna save some money if we cancel the deputy mayor, and these same deputy mayors we're going to hire where? We'll hire them back at City Hall as advisors to the mayor. Great savings. I'll tell you what it looks like in my Sibenik. In my Sibenik, the situation seems to you like this, hundreds of water workers, hundreds of green workers in Cleanness so-called. The Green City, then hundreds of employees in the City Parking, then in the public institutions of the Fortress of Culture, then on the Podji, on Bikarac, then the City Company of Batižele, not to mention schools, kindergartens and, of course, the city administration where all employees are, of course, known in which way. And that wouldn't be controversial, anyone who wins the election has the right to manage the system, right? He also has the right to hire the man he wants in the place he wants. But the problem is you know where? When one employee, no matter which one of these companies was that waterworks or city administration or irrelevantly which company complains to its friend, colleagues that he's bored at work and that this is the third time he's finished the game and that there's no level of level on that game to play, that his finger hurts by clicking, but not by clicking on what he's been doing for the city just because he's been playing video games. And he's not the only one. Some do not have affinity to video games, but they have affinity to various portals, to social networks, and then they are even used for the party, and at the time of their work they click, comment, bark, shale, whatever the party leaders or their employers command, or what they want them to do. In short, savings could happen very easily if hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of ears that exist in various city and county companies were sent to the labour market. I have to point out here, however, that there are people who really work and deserve their pay, but the unemployed are very much. We're not going to make savings by eliminating some of the substitutes in the city as we could do exactly the opposite, which is by firing the unemployed who have a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9977	The next club is the HDZ's representative and on behalf of him will speak the respected representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9978	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today she would talk right here, and I'm going to refer to this issue of entrepreneurship and the survival of the economy. Entrepreneurship and economy must always be a topic and must be at the centre of attention, and here is the topic at this time when the pandemic is harassing the whole world, including in Croatia. Why is this important to mention? So precisely because in this past period, the government has taken a number of measures just to preserve the economy in order to preserve jobs and in one way give incentives and incentives to preserve jobs to that extent that every man has the ability to survive in these difficult times. Let us remind ourselves that by now over 7.6 billion kuna has been paid to preserve jobs and all entrepreneurs, which is over 107,000 entrepreneurs who have used these measures and over 650,000 employees. I must point out that what is announced by the end of the year will be paid 8 billion kuna in total and what needs to be noted in particular that all measures will be maintained, that, with the measures that exist for the payment of two and 4,000 kuna respectively, monthly wage for workers, there will be additional measures. That is why 470 million kunas for contributions are also provided. Other measures to be further implemented are to cover the part of fixed costs during closure, and this measure should amount to 250 million kuna. This will apply to multiple branches or to all those who will have a fall in income over 60% and will be able to use them wider diapazone entrepreneurs. The third measure is covid loans, which is 1.3 billion kuna via HAMAG BICRO, which is very important in order to preserve and preserve liquidity and that companies can at least partially recover. We must note that so far over $1.9 billion has been paid through HAMAG BRICO and these loans have been used by over 5,000 companies. It should also be noted that to increase the liquidity of 1.3 billion kuna loans foreseen for trade funds, it will be at an interest rate of 0.25% and that the amount of these loans will be up to a maximum of 380,000 kuna for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises. And then we have a rush of those who think that everything that's been done so far and that seems very spotless and very effective that it's not good, and then they call the government for something that it hasn't put into the focus of its current considerations. Is it the goal of any government and any Prime Minister not to preserve the economy and entrepreneurs? It's not normal. So all of these events that we've been having lately to put lamps to put wreaths on individual ministries is something that can't be accepted because all of this proves that those who do this don't actually admit anything from legs that is very high-quality, very spotty and very efficient. Therefore, all that has been done so far must be highly appreciated that it has been quickly and efficiently done and that in this way much of the jobs have been preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u9979	Thank you. We will now stop by this point because, as usual, in one hour, we are going to present a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and the first one on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Party will be spoken by a respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10035	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I expect to tell you today about the cancer of the early Croatian society, so corruption that eats and the Croatian village. It is high time for Croatia to regulate its agricultural policy before we and our last citizen leave rural space to work in Ireland or Germany. Over the past years, Croatia's policy has been anything but unclear, transparent and reasonable. In other EU Member States, our people find jobs on exactly the same farms and economies from which they were forced to leave Croatia. Agriculture has mirrored the country's development everywhere in Europe, as well as the country's relations with the village itself. But these generally known facts don't get to those who make decisions. What is really going on in our agriculture? How is it possible that, knowing the value of one of the most important branches of the economy of each cultural and developed country, we have offended agriculture so much, so we have offended fair work. Our villages remain empty, the rural area is abandoned by once rich villages full of different products, values and wealth, many families in under 20 years politics have created sorrow and misery. Here, for example. In 2009, we had 65,000 family economies that produced Croatian milk, and today, ten years later, we have only about 4,000, but it is not a European trend because the total number of cows at EU level was increased by 7% last year, and Croatia is falling by 11% and domestic health products are more wanted and appreciated than ever, and food safety is the priority of European policy. Only Croatia simply suppresses everything that nature has given it and what the Croatian peasant has grown. And what did state support do to Croatian agriculture? 1% of large uses more than 40% of support while 5% of them produce on half of the total working surfaces in Croatia. We are witnessing that agricultural land as the most important resource in agriculture is carried out mostly on the political line, there are also forests of regulations that treat Croatian farmers as a local criminal while irrevocably affecting large systems and import lobbys. It's a miracle we have survivors in the country. In the case of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, part of compulsory tendering documents were economic programmes within which applicants were obliged to indicate existing agricultural production as well as information on what would increase in production if they were leased. After the foundation of such promises contained in the programme itself and the advantage came to pass and many of the existing production was extinguished, cattle or cows sold out, milk production was extinguished, promises of newly employed people forgot and moved on to clean wartime production. Several bio-energys in Croatia are supplied with wet corn grown on the fields of fertile orans borrowed from the Republic of Croatia, and all based on the economic programmes in which the tenant promised to use land to increase meat and milk production and while the real cattle producers struggle with problems over the lack of land. Often, the data on the programme itself were incorrect, they were not even engaged in agriculture, but they certainly achieved the advantage. Many have given their land after signing contracts with the Republic of Croatia contrary to the provisions of the lease agreement to third parties for use because they themselves do not have mechanisms, and they do not have an obvious will to work. Some are incompetent, some are retired but still receive support. It is often the case of those who, after renting state land that is most frequently encircled, easily accessible to their private which they gave to the cattleman for rent. Stočar has no choice, he could not make it to the state country, so he was convicted of processing everything offered to him so that he and his flock could survive. Some mayors of municipalities who owned land owned by the Republic of Croatia have never implemented a rule on the revaluation of the rent price because they would collect their own rent price. The same chiefs refuse to carry out land tenders even though all contracts are based on the basis of which they have expired. Many leased land do not process it, but they leased it to others even though I'm the law, but contract provisions also say it's forbidden. However, the DORH also took sides with those who had sublet the land and had not broken any contracts. Dearly beloved, aren't all these listed enough corrupt actions that would discourage any normal man for life and for country work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10036	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Hrelja will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10119	Today, December 9th is the date on which the birthday of Uljanik, our economic shipbuilding giant, was celebrated, which has fed numerous generations of Pulacan, Istrian, workers and their families throughout the former and present state. Today, the best workers were rewarded, the best experts were awarded, the race was run through the Uljanik, the rich history of innovation, the skills and knowledge of the oil workers was evoked. Last year, in May, the opening of bankruptcy proceedings on companies in the Uljanika system covered the black sky over Pula enterprises, on the population giant, on the whole of Pula and Istria, because without the Oilers, knowledge and skills distributors to numerous Pulans and Istrians, life is unimaginable. The economic and social consequences of the loss of production are unspeakably painful and large because the shipbuilding and other oil products accounted for a significant percentage of exports for which there is no alternative. There are fewer and fewer optimists who believe in resuscitating shipbuilding through the new company Uljannik in 1856 or shipyard in 1856 who promised power by giving even certain guarantees, and there it stands, afterwards. The oil for power is not Agrokor, bankruptcy goes its course and still waits for something new, they say there are no more conditions to run. Unfortunately, gentlemen, unfortunately, hope cannot feed the family, live and work. And only four years ago, December 9, 2016. Today, the Ulnik celebrated 160 years of his existence and work. There was a lot of optimism, a lot of good emotions, and a lot of book orders. Gentlemen, the Oilman is shutting down. His painting today is made up of loose runs, rusty metal remains, sad unemployed cranes, empty halls, dead silence. As representative of Pulažan, Istria, Croatia's long-standing Uljanovac, I feel obliged to presently in this House on his birthday with a few words reminding both the authorities and the public of the name and significance of the Oilic. The “Uljannik” Shipyard dominates the modern history of Pula as well as the entire Istrian peninsula. Pula was only in the mid-19th century a city plagued by malaria with all thousand souls and 200 houses. 10 years after laying the foundation for the maritime arsenal in Pula, there were already 17,000 inhabitants and 1880. already close to 30,000 inhabitants. It just sounds amazing that at the beginning of the last century, the Oilman employed nearly 15,000 workers, the industrial blockage in the early industrial civilization of the world allowed Pula to be classified among the underdeveloped cities in the Mediterranean. During the Italian occupation, it was systematically abandoned and bombed and destroyed by allies. After the renovation, the ship builders themselves restored the Uljanik, developed a two-part construction technique and constructed the largest ship on this side of the Adriatic. A mammoth that's connected in two-part water. On war occasions, Uljanik is from 1991 to 1995. He managed to deliver a total of 14 ships, in the late '90s moving into a major technological reconstruction of the shipyard, building a new cutting hall with all the necessary equipment and new machines, including plasma cutters and a robot line for cutting profiles. The oil used to specialize in building the most complex constructions, was one of the few shipyards in the world that had references in the construction of very complex and expensive cranes. It was in Pula that the world's strongest pirate was built. Croatia's oil-free shipbuilding is clear evidence that Croatia really does not have a clear shipbuilding strategy. The question is, is it because he doesn't really want to or because he doesn't know how to deal with such a demanding activity despite its economic significance? Perhaps an appeal for the rescue of the Oilies should be made to the founders of 1856, I believe that before we know what to do. In the absence of a solution to shut down the Oilies, only a builder of error can be found to cover by humming, and the state bankers are bankrupt, and I am not amnesting anyone's responsibility just pointing out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10120	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers on behalf of whom the respected representative Dario Hrebak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10152	Dear and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable Vice President of HS. Today all morning we are talking about the Law on Local Self-Government, we are talking about the transparency of local self-government units, and somehow this whole transparency story has come to an end, and even some of our colleagues are calling us that some of us have sold ourselves to the Jews. But let's let these policies go, let's talk and discuss another important topic that is related to this same transparency. We are talking about the transparency of the units of local self-government, but we could also talk about the transparency of some of the already perhaps former parliamentary political parties, I will make a concrete point of view of what is happening, which I think is a bad message and which will not be accepted in any way well in public, it is about the Foreigner with Name and Surname. This party with Name and Surname was still a parliamentary party until yesterday, today it is already a passive party, I would dare say a fictitious party, and even some of its former or perhaps some of the other small members, so simply a party that no longer represents anything on the political scene and its former representatives are saying the same thing that simply the party is passive. The party is passive in everything, but in one thing it is not passive, and this one thing of passivity is manifested in accepting hundreds of thousands of kuna, and in a four-year term it is very likely over one million kuna of taxpayers' money, money that should be intended for work by that passive fictitious party. Mrs. Dalia Oreshković, notorna Janaf's lawyer, herself, said that the party no longer exists, but they have no problem accepting hundreds of thousands of kunas from the state budget that I do not know how to transfer to the newly founded and old party, which has essentially changed, has gone to Smart in the Center. I know that most of you, and probably to Croatian citizens, it's all going to be a little blurry, it turns out it's practically like working on that old established principle of you starting a party so you can track money through these parties, it reminds me more of a mob organization than it reminds me of a former parliamentary party. In order to say Mrs. Oreshkovic could also get from state-owned companies... without a public tendering job as much as the damage there is earned, it is now something else. However, we really need to ask ourselves whether the parties in Croatia today serve as money-laundering machines for taxpayers. So these are hundreds of thousands of kunas that question how they will be transferred to another or third or fourth party because Mrs. Oreshkovic has already brought them down quite a bit. These are the questions I openly call and I call for the competent institutions to be involved, and today I will personally submit to the competent State Audit responsible for spending taxpayers' money through political parties, as well as to the IRS, because we may see and testify here for a few years on fake invoices, on fake diaries, on fake travel orders. I don't think it fits the person who called herself the person who is the greatest anti-corruption fighter, who is the greatest transparency fighter and who, in some way, would say a trademark to protect the interests of taxpayer citizens, and ultimately all of us. Therefore, I am proud today to report to the competent institutions to examine the complete process, now former, passive and fictitious parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10153	Thank you. Now we're going to take a break until 14.10 to get the wind out. I'll see you. A.M.P.S. At 13:50 P.M. The next club of representatives is the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10167	Dear colleagues and colleagues. It was convenient to see the prime minister and ministers at the World Cup at the government meeting sitting in national uniforms, thereby supporting Luka Modric and other silver football players. We were all heating up their euphoria at the time, and they knew that the whole of Croatia was following them, and that was good. I will give this speech in uniform because I will speak on gender equality and not out of pity. We at a collokiously called women's club have not asked for any discount on weakness at any time, nor have we ever called ourselves a women's club for the sole promotion of women's questions. Our questions are all the questions discussed by this House, and our measures are arguments and fighting for them by equal rules with every other club. We play hard, earn and warn, but we rise up and respond counter-attack, control and counter-control whenever we arrive. We can talk about gender equality at academic level, we can talk about statistics, but today I'm going to do it on a very specific example. The European Handball Championship is under way, and it is not broadcast by any national television. Our state television in its news doesn't even have some actual goal shot, but with the result it puts a frozen ancient painting from some former competition that has nothing to do with today. I know cafes don't work, so we can't expect to see a game in cheerleading corners, but just because we're all in our homes maybe we can look at our sports heroes in our apartments. But no matter how many national programs we're running, there's nothing there. Well, it's not possible that no one wants to see Duvnjak, Cindric and Karacic. And here we are on gender equality as we see it. The European football championship is currently going on in Denmark, but it's not a man but a woman and yes, our girls are being escorted as outsiders, without any serious chances, so apparently no national television had any interest in buying out any summary, no videos, let alone direct transmissions. All right, it's all understandable, but now it follows what makes the whole thing still need to be reconsidered. Our girls got caught up and trained, so the first three games hit all the biggest favorites. In each game, they fought goal by goal with stronger than themselves and beat them in a row by outsiders became a hit of the European championship with the greatest effect and a second round placement. They didn't ask us to follow them because they were a women's team, but now they deserve to be an example of what gender equality is when a man chooses that position. And in fact, they didn't fight for that position at all manly for that equal status, would that mean for some kind of automation? No, I don't. They fought precisely for women, which means that from the position of subordination they had to be twice as tight to get to the level of equality with the stronger sex. I call on HRT or some other national television to buy games for the next round because maybe it's marketable when we're all at home anyway, so watching our girls fight and how they die for a national uniform can also mean raising ratings. We like to say with the right to say that our athletes are also our best ambassadors, today they are our handmaidens, they fight until the last second and they don't want to capitulate in front of themselves much stronger. The Hungarians who were among the favourites and then the Dutch world champions won, and last night they also put them on Serbian representatives. The last 15 minutes. They received only one goal, and that means that they radiate combat, unity, perseverance, everything that we today in society so much is missing and missing. I invite Balic, Jombu, Vori, Šol, but also Duvnjak and Cindric, and then perhaps Modric and Dalić to actively engage in the media and social networks in support of handball players who, under their menu, suddenly Šostarić from outsiders, step towards the medal. I invite you colleagues and colleagues, as well as the media and the public, to follow them as they now rightly deserve. We also create an atmosphere for them that they are our heroines. We're in isolation anyway, it'll all look like a sport, and it'll happen that there'll be an example of what equality should be for anyone and anything every day. There will be equality in one game and on one topic that will not divide us as an epidemiological headquarters, perhaps then we understand why the headquarters in this crisis should be representative, not as it is now. And lastly, I'm just going to read the names of our phenomenal handball players here from the constituencies because they earned it from Tea Pijević, Lucia Bessen, Paula Posavec, Dora Krsnik, Stella Posavec, Camila Micijević Larissa Kalaus, Dora Kalaus, Katarina Ježić, Tena Japan [[Thank you very much.]] /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Thank you very much. You should have planned your speech time so you could read it.]] Good girl, good luck to the medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10168	I ask you nicely not to exceed your time in the future because you have no greater right than any other parliamentary representatives. The next club of representatives will be the bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10182	The Honorable Vice President of the HS, Mr. Rainer. My colleagues and colleagues, welcome to all. The Croatian people who watch and listen. Promises are good, promises are something so good and positive, when they're good promises then they carry you, then they push you forward. Promises can offer you a vision, a direction you could go, promises even in some dark times carry a positive one. Promises have great value, promises are very good. But it would be good if we stood behind our words, it would be good if ours were yes and ours wasn't. Oh, how good would it be if when we communicate with each other, when we look into the eyes of whatever we talk about, whatever topics we touch, whatever story we go into to look at each other and we know that's that, that's the man of the word, that's the people who when they say something, that's how it is. If we give ourselves a hand, if we make a deal, then that's how it is, let's stick to our words. They promised the Croatian public a major transformation towards digital society. Most colleagues, time flies, do not miss another opportunity to introduce Croatia into the 21st century. I'll definitely set up the river with my team to complete openness, so you can see how we can handle it in Rijeka. Anyway, you promised the Croatian public smart cities, smart villages, smart islands, smart schools, everything you promised us. Let me tell you, it seems to me that while all something is promised wisely many Croatians are extremely valuable at work at the end and their brains have gone looking somewhere beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and that is not good. It's not good for our country, for our society. It's not good for our country, for our society. We as a state must do everything, create conditions, an atmosphere for the return of our people, not for departure. Croatia has enough brains, top experts and all those who remain in our country should be able to work these people, should be able to grow, develop in a society of equal opportunities. Fellow MPs, it's our job to build such a society. Here on December 9th we mark the 9th anniversary of the signing of the EU accession treaty, where we have committed ourselves as a state, as a society to develop circular waste management, we have committed ourselves to separate biowaste, to build composts. In the field, however, outdated missed concepts are pushed, which simply cannot exist in modern societies of green politics. We can't calmly look at air pollution, the poisons that come from the county waste management centres, we can't reconcile with the uncompromising, ecocid, the health threat that comes specifically from Mariščina, Kastion or from a crazy idea, now watch out for this to build a garbage burner in a waterproof area, as if I'm reading Alan Ford, maybe you could say more Dylan Dog it's still more acceptable not, the garbage burner in the waterproof area of Sušačka Draga. Fortunately, Vežićans from Donja and Gornja Vežice citizens of Sušačka Draga, Trsat, Sušak will certainly not allow it. Be careful, instead of putting water in our mouths, we treat ourselves so unsolicitedly and irresponsiblely to the best strategic interests of our country. Today we read how on the world's largest stock market here we can talk about Wall Street starts a water trade, dear people, MPs, water trade as it is traded with gold, oil, gas or shares. Croatia must protect its water and raise to the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u10183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22365	Honorable MPs and MPs good morning. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 247. Rules of Procedure of HS conduct a joint discussion on the following three points: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 76, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on local elections, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 77 i - Final bill amending the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 78. Are we in agreement with this proposal? Thank you very much. Since there are no objections, I note that we will conduct a united debate on those points. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I now call upon the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22366	The Honorable President of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. Therefore, you have before you three amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the City of Zagreb, so the objective of amending and supplementing these laws is to streamline and optimise the work of units of local and regional self-government and enable them to grow and develop. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme defined five priorities, among which the priority is strengthened statehood, effective, resilient and digital Croatia. As part of the priority, with the already reduced number of ministries and state officials, we also predicted a reduction in local officials by abolishing ministerial assistants. The amendments and additions to the laws that are before you will allow for a reduction in the number of local officials, better quality of the issues that have been shown to be insufficiently precise and effective in practice. 428 municipalities, 127 towns, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, which has the status of the county, were established in the Republic of Croatia. In such a system we choose 1,247 local officials, the local elections elect 671 deputies, 434 deputy municipal mayors, 197 deputy mayors and 40 deputy mayors, including from the ranks of national minorities or members of Croatian peoples in units where members of national minorities were elected by the majority of the population of 74 deputies. Amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government reduce the number of deputies by 618, so citizens in the local elections in May next year would be elected by 53 fewer deputy mayors or mayors, 29 deputy mayors and 24 deputy mayors. Two deputys will be able to have mayors in districts with more than 250,000 inhabitants and mayors in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. One deputy will be able to have mayors in counties with up to 250,000 inhabitants and mayors in cities with more than 35,000 to 100,000 inhabitants, as well as mayors of cities that are county headquarters. A total of 8.254 members of representative bodies were elected by the relevant law in the local elections and increased by the number of members of the national minority if their representation is not ensured among the selected members. The proposed amendments would reduce the number of members of the representative bodies by 10%, which means that some 7,400 members of the representative bodies would be elected in the next elections. It is unquestionable that these changes will result in certain savings in the budgets of local self-government units, the Ministry of Justice and Administration projections suggest that the proposed changes will result in savings of around 130 million kuna and about 57 million kuna would be saved on salaries and compensations for the deputies we abolish. By reducing the number of members of the representative bodies by 10%, 14.3 million kuna will be saved, since there is an existing system for compensation to members of the representative bodies, 143 million kuna is allocated. The legislative proposal also introduces the maximum annual amounts that local or regional self-government units will be able to allocate for representative body fees, the maximum annual amount in the counties or depending on the number of inhabitants will be between 13 and 16,000 kuna net, and in municipalities and cities these amounts will be between 4 and 16,000 kuna. The savings on this basis will be around 48 million kuna, as according to our estimates for this year in all units of local self-government can be paid up to 80 million kuna. In addition, for other material costs of the deputy that are difficult to assess at this time, however, we have calculated this quite conservatively and these savings amount to around 4 million kunas, and these changes also reduce costs for political action for which 4.7 million kunas are allocated less compared to the current system. In the context of these amendments, we are also addressing the issue of replacements in the event of longer absence and early elections. When it comes to municipalities and cities where no deputies are elected, if the mayor and the mayor are suspended early in office in the unit, early elections will be discussed, and the government commissioner will act until the elections are carried out. In relation to the cities and counties in which the deputies are elected, the same principle or the same provisions as in the applicable law has been retained, so if the term of office of the mayor or the mayor who has the deputy is terminated before two years of office, early elections will be discussed, and by the time the election is carried out, the Deputy Chief of Staff will act as deputy, and if the term of office has ceased, the Deputy Chief of Staff will act until the election. If, after two years of office, the term of office of the mayor or the deputy who has the deputy office as well as so far, no early elections will be called but will be held until the end of the term of office by the deputy. If, during the term of office of the mayor or mayor who has a deputy, and before the term of office, only the deputy will not be called for early elections. If the local self-government leader's term of office is called off in the unit, early elections will be called, and the government's commissioner will act until the election. The report on changes during the term of office and so far will be conducted by the head of whose jurisdiction are official relations, the Ministry of Justice and Administration will inform it. In the case of a lengthy absence of a municipal or deputy mayor, the bill provides for a representative body to appoint a temporary deputy from its members, thus ensuring that those exceptional circumstances of the elected head or mayor who does not have a deputy elect a person who has an electoral legitimacy in that unit. The temporary deputy will only be able to perform regular and necessary tasks to ensure the regular functioning of the municipality, and at the time will exercise the rights of the mayor or mayor. We are also introducing through these amendments and the additions of the law we also introduce a provision on the public publication of information on the spending of budgets in an easily accessible and searchable manner as well as on the state budget. We are also regulating the issue of temporary financing, or extending the circle of authorised applicants for a decision on temporary financing. In addition to the municipal chief, mayor, mayor or commissioner, other applicants established by the Rules of Procedure of the representative body shall be identified as the authorising officer. I remind you that we had such an arrangement in the legislative framework until 2017. We also prescribe that in cases where a new elected body has been established in the unit after early elections until the adoption of the unit budget, funding takes place for regular necessary expenditures and expenditures, it can be implemented by means of a decision taken by the mayor, mayor or mayor. We also address these amendments and additions to the questions related to the procedure for assessing the legality of the general act, so if the High Administrative Court, in the procedure for the control of the legality of the general act, abolishs the budget of the representative body, it is required to adopt a budget within 45 days of the publication of the decision of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the NN and, until the budget is adopted, the financing shall be based on the decision of the Head, Mayor or Mayor. We also more detailedly regulate the provisions relating to the rights of persons who carry out their duties professionally among other things and the right to compensation of salaries and insurance at the end of their professional duties. It is also now clearly prescribed that the right to remuneration and training and insurance upon termination of professional duties shall be exercised on its own request by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies and shall begin on the first day following the termination of the professional performance of the duties. An application for the exercise of those rights shall be submitted at the latest on the last day of professional performance, and, if it fails to submit a request, it shall not be able to exercise the right to pay and the period of insurance. With these amendments, we also allow the holding of a session by electronic means in emergency situations, nomotechnically edit the provisions relating to the referendum in order to strengthen participatory democracy, we introduce provisions on the keeping of general data records in municipalities, cities and counties led by the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and we will regulate the issue and obligations of local self-government units for data delivery through a special regulation. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections is therefore in significant alignment with amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. The paper introduced by this law is the achievement, unification of the exercise of passive voting rights to the executive body... by the electoral law for members of representative bodies. We do not make that provision for individuals, but we allow everyone to choose and be chosen on equal terms. This proposal also addresses the issue of incompatibility and the rest of the duties of members of the representative body which the representative body will appoint as temporary deputy municipal chief or mayor. Also when we talk about the law amending the Law on the City of Zagreb, this law is changed because of technical harmonisation with amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government and refers to a reduction in the number of representatives in the City Assembly from 51 to 47. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, the reform of local self-government is often called for in this House of Commons. Changes in the territorial structure are not changes made overnight, without quality analysis and social debate, and in accordance with the Constitution guaranteed the right to local self-government. The long-term goal of our government is to promote functional integration of local self-government units. With these changes to municipalities and cities and counties, we leave enough administrative and fiscal capacity to be the bearers of development. We believe that these legal changes ahead of you today will bring some positive changes to the local self-government system, primarily to the benefit of the local population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22367	Thank you, Minister. Stay here because we have replicas. We've got 11 here in the hall, and we'll see what happens outside the hall. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22368	Thank you very much. Minister, this law is essentially the make-up of reform, and it's actually hard to say that reform is because the fact is that now the mayors and mayors of their deputy are naming their vice president, and the leaders aren't political places in local and regional self-government, but the employees are like hierarchical, and basically nothing with this is solved, the right solution would be that the counties were abolished then the local self-government would breathe through, so the decentralised funds would come where they should come and not be mayor mayor mayor, and all mayors and mayors would be dependent, would not be dependent on one man and which the mayor and mayor has a party card. This is one pamphlet, an attempt at nothing, one little shift, but basically one big nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22369	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22370	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. So, as I said in my presentation, this change stems from the government's programme and we clearly communicated that in this first part we are going to rationalise and reduce costs at local level in terms of reducing the number of local officials to choose a smaller number of local officials in the local elections in 2021, to continuously reduce certain costs for members of the representative body, but also for material costs for these deputies. What we aim at at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we will do so in the next period, which is to go in the direction of functional integration of JLS, I believe that we will use it from the National Resistance and Recovery Plan to actually strengthen JLS in the conduct of the affairs that are placed in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22371	Comrade Pavlichko, you are second.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22372	Dear Minister, you've made a clean cosmetic with these amendments and additions to the law. This is not any reform of JLS, and as long as Croatia looks like this in territorial terms, it has 555 municipalities and cities, there is no savings on the ground. You know that too, all citizens know that. And all these deputies that you are now, by this law you are abolishing this same mayor will be able to appoint them as advisor with astronomical amounts and where is the savings in the local budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22373	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22374	So our projections are, in fact, that these savings, these changes will be saved at an annual level of about 130 million kuna, so in one term almost half a billion kuna. I'm not going in, you're coming from local, from local self-government, I don't want to go in the way that local leaders will treat their former deputies, it's their right and the possibility given to them by local self-government. But we are certainly going towards providing certain savings, and I believe that local self-government, local self-government leaders with these savings that are quite significant in certain JLS will use these funds, especially for the next programming period and for the projects they are preparing, especially in terms of co-financing of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22375	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22376	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this law reduces a large number of deputies, commissioners, mayors and mayors, but I see that the mayors and mayors and mayors are already working on systems and providing room for special advisors. These special advisors will actually take the place of deputies, and we have an example and a recipe for how it is done. The recipe is the Varazdin County which, when the mayor who was supposed to be mayor, in fact, lost in elections in the town of Varazdin, suddenly became the special adviser of Mayor Cacic in Varazdin County. She took over all the powers of the deputy, the deputies became pawns, she was caught as a special advisor and in a company in Varazdin County. I'm just curious now, do you have any legal prescriptions that don't go into procedure in all the other municipalities and cities that recipe of the Varazdin County?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22377	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22378	Thank you, Your Honor. So, as everyone knows, one of the fundamental principles of local self-government is the principle of autonomy and independence. In that part, we cannot get in touch with the way the JLS leader will lead the city and who he will hire or whom he will hire as special advisers. So with these changes, as I replied to my colleagues, we freed certain financial resources for the JLS so that they could be used in some other way primarily on their development. What I do at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, but primarily in the Ministry of Finance, what they do, so they oversee the spending of budget funds, primarily that part and that pay limit. So here I believe that JLS, or leaders, will act consciously and will use these resources that are given them for, primarily for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22379	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22380	Thank you. Dear Minister, we have instructed and we are the only option that has led to the procedure long ago reform of local self-government, we have spoken here before this debate, you said your proposal is much more radical than ours, but neither yours nor our proposal, if you went more radically into cuts, it would ultimately mean that the costs of JLS will be reduced. The colleagues have already talked about how there are ways for the mayors or mayors or mayors to bypass what is proposed in the law itself. What I think is necessary in this law on cost transparency is to introduce certain provisions where public purchases of certain values will have to be made, meaning transactions from the budget according to, I don't know, city council members or municipal council members, especially their family members, so here I am making a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22381	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22382	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of the bush. So, in the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, we have provided for a provision where we actually oblige JLS to publish, publish data on the spending of public funds and focus on the Budget Act, which I believe will go quickly into the parliamentary procedure where this obligation will be further developed. I certainly support, therefore, this transparency and openness, so that the spending of public funds is not only at local but also at national level, so it is available to all and that all of us, therefore, together leaders, are responsible for the spending of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22383	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22384	Good afternoon. First of all, there was a little bit of a wider framework, so it's too bad these changes haven't changed. 48. because it is unacceptable from the aspect of democracy that municipal chiefs and mayors have and resolve representatives of local or regional self-government in bodies of public institutions, companies and other legal entities. This is also contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which says, therefore, that the right and possibility of local units to regulate and manage with their own responsibility in the interests of local public interests is an essential part of public affairs. That's what you didn't, that you didn't actually go into these amendments and the additions to the law. Some technical stuff, I don't really understand one thing, why it got into art. 9. that the councilor must agree, in accordance with the agreement with the employer, on a justifiable lack of work, that a dangerous thing is being introduced here, that the employer It affects a councilman who and a number of other things that are problematic [[Intruder: Thank you]] but that employer is affecting the councilman. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22385	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22386	I thank the distinguished representative, Peovic. So it certainly wasn't in our interest that the employer, to give the employer any possibility in any way to influence his employee who is a member of a specific representative body. So far in the past term, we have had some problems with the current, valid provision, yet this way we have some compromise solution that, if the employer were nevertheless obliged to allow his employee to attend the meetings of the representative body, but we are also modifying the way in which they will regulate this, this relationship, so we would arrange this relationship with the agreement. So it was certainly not our goal to have an employer influence on his employee but to facilitate participation and participation in the work of the representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22387	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22388	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, here are three short questions for you. How do you comment on an independent survey by the municipal councilman from Oroslavlj, a man who has recently become very popular, Mr. Viktor Simunic, who precisely says that they are saving cosmetic nature? That's my first question. Savings if they are, please answer my question of how much is the savings by adopting these new legal provisions in relation to our GDP, therefore in percentages, of course, if you have that information? And thirdly, not necessarily a precise ministerial issue, but a political question, why all the opposition savings initiatives are immediately called populist if we know that on one side of the political spectrum, so-called. pulsism, on the other hand, would be elitism and do you think HDZ is an elitist party? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22389	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22390	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, our calculation of the savings that will be achieved with these amendments to these three laws, so 130 million kuna, so I'll say that according to the items, is that we're saving 57 million kunas on the salaries of deputies that we're removing from these changes, then we're saving 48 million kuna on fees for members of the representative bodies, so there's 48 + 14.3 million kuna and we've got compensation for the political action of 4.7 million kuna that will be plus material costs, so from each of these changes that are going to be less for 618, so there's going to be certain material costs and these changes and additions, so if we have 618 fewer deputies, we'll have a lot less and material costs that go to those deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22391	Now it's my colleague Lerotić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22392	Dear Minister, we have a situation here that the mayor or the mayor who has no deputy, and because of his long absence, cannot perform his function for which he has received electoral legitimacy that his council elects a deputy without the right to propose a deputy and the situation may happen for his deputy or deputy to be the chosen person who has lost directly to him in the direct elections, so a man can rightly ask himself where the electoral legitimacy of that person is and how it can ensure the long-term development of a local community. Unfortunately, we believe that this law, not only is it not a reform but it's a bad law that throws us literally 15 years old. Back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22393	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22394	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I don't know, I'd like you to explain to me the way you came to this law throwing us away for 15 years. Back up. So it's certainly our goal with these changes, so it's determined by rationalization and optimization in the JLS. I believe that all of you here who come from local self-government and who have been in local self-government will therefore accept these facts that through these changes and additions will be freed from certain financial capacity which, therefore, will be spent not on advisory salaries or additional front salary rather than on certain projects that I think are very important for JLS. As far as deputies are concerned, so we're going to do the laundry, so it's about certain situations when, when it comes to shorter or longer prevention and we're going towards the units of the local, according to the direction of the representative body that should determine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22395	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22396	Dear Minister, therefore, we have heard from previous replicas and statements that I am also joining the view that cosmetic changes are involved and that two questions would be asked. So how do you comment or why you haven't arranged a better question for smaller municipalities that we know are barely working now, that I can barely pay for the services they provide, how do you plan to arrange it? And the second question is why did you not apply the Charter of Local Self-Government more strongly, which I quote, says that the whole of the European Charter of Local Self-Government to be precise, so "the whole concept of local self-government implies that the right and possibility of local units to regulate and manage under certain laws with their own responsibility in the interests of local publicities is exercised through the council or the assembly," so I ask you why you have not applied at least a part of that section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22397	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22398	Thank you very much. So in my opening statement or in response to some of the questions of respected MPs, I said that this is just the beginning or one segment of public administration reform and it is here for the reason that next year we have local elections, but the second segment is much more important and goes towards strengthening the capacity of local self-government, or better efficiency of local self-government units, is therefore about functional integration of local self-government units. So, we are also going through a project that we are currently implementing at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which is optimizing the system of units of local self-government, but also through the National Resistance and Recovery Plan to work on strengthening the capacities of local self-government units to connect it and to connect citizens through this functional integration, but also to strengthen local self-government senses of a number of benefits, especially in services provided by local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22399	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22400	Dear Minister. Here we have also heard from Mr. Stromar that indeed one part of these changes that you have stated in the law of really cosmetic nature and that the local leaders have made sure that you place your deputies in advisory places. The question that I would ask you is about the transparency you mentioned, so I'm interested in whether you predicted that the data from the budget is being displayed on the fifth level to see each item in particular? The second question is about the platform, if we know that we have 500 and some units of local self-government and that each of them needs to be shown in some way, I think it would be very good if we all in Croatia had that data in the same way and in a way that we could search and process them among other things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22401	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22402	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, I think there's a criticism that most of you here have said so far that I'm guessing, and some of you say that cosmetic changes don't hold water. So when we take that for a four-year term, saving is half a billion kuna. I say, this is just the first part of public administration reform, the second part will go towards this functional integration of local self-government units and the approach itself requires a certain seriousness and a certain analysis and we believe that in this mandate we will achieve it. As for transparency and openness, if I agree with you, it should do a unique platform that will allow all units of local self-government to publish data without additional costs, so one part of local self-government units already has such platforms, however, that we do not generate additional costs to other local self-government units we will allow a certain open cloud platform platform to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22403	Thank you. My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22404	Dear Minister. Unfortunately, this is not a reform. This is an anti-reform. In Croatia we have 556 cities and municipalities, 556 mayors, mayors, 556 city and municipal councils and now a few deputies are moving to cover the public's eyes, so this is not a reform, this is an anti-reform to avoid the real reforms. Also, what concerns me is one part of the elemental democracy, so far the members of the representative bodies have been entitled to the units of local and regional self-government to the unpaid absence of work to attend the meetings. This reform requires them to agree with their employers, which can lead to a part of them, for example. the opposition representatives or members of the representative bodies will not be able to attend the meetings. It's very dangerous and undemocratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22405	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22406	Thank you very much. So, anti-reform, reform, this is a change in the system of local self-government, which is only part of the package and of the changes that we will make in this mandate. I repeat that several times, therefore, half a billion kuna in the four-year term is not a small amount. As regards the participation of a representative body member, the employer is obliged to enable his employee to participate in the work of the representative body, and we also suggest that he arranges it through a certain agreement, so he is obliged to enable him, cannot either influence or prohibit him from participating in the work of the representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22407	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22408	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. One of the amendments that will result from this law as you yourself stated in the explanation is related to the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme adopted in 23.7.2020, then you promoted the fact that you would introduce budget transparency at local and regional level, but here all the time you are trying to connect transparently with openness despite being aware that these are two completely different concepts, completely different models. The document called the report on the implementation of the budget is already published today and does not represent transparency at least not the one you promoted in the election campaign. You say that reform is a long-term process, a unit reform of local self-government, so please define long-term transparency because true transparency that you do not promote or promote or advocate can be implemented within a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22409	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22410	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So I have already responded that with the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, we have created an obligation for units of local self-government to publish data on the spending of public funds. I believe that this debate will continue on this topic when there is a Budget Law where there will be a more detailed provision for units of local self-government. And I missed the opportunity to answer your colleagues, so when we talk about SDP and your vision of the unit reform of local self-government, I would remind you that in April of this year you said that you were for territorial reconstruction, to reduce the number of units of local self-government except on your island, that all these units of local self-government are good, and in fact they are on average all other units of local self-government, so you did so and with the counties you have a certain selective approach, so here is so much about your view of public administration reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22411	Thank you. Thank you very much, don't throw it out of the bench. Now let's go to our video link, dear colleague Kujundzic, I welcome you. I'll talk to you later?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22412	I welcome and thank the esteemed president of HS Mr. Jandrokovic. Dear Minister Malenica. The truth is, as you just said before, that changes don't come overnight, and you also know for yourself... I'm going to ask you three questions, first of all, why didn't you limit the number of mandates of the executive authority in the units of local and regional administrations and self-government? [[Constructions in the video connection, not understood.]] Secondly, do you know how many units of local administration and self-government do you actually have an analysis that actually has fiscal stability and justification on the budget side? And the third question, how many of you personally ministers, were you personally autonomous as a resolute minister in proposing and writing these changes, or did someone put it on the side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22413	Thank you very much. We heard the questions, a little weaker the first opening part, but we could figure it all out in the end. Here you go, Comrade Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22414	Thank you very much for asking questions. So, this reform, or this amendment, of the three laws relating to local self-government, has, of course, been done and led by me as head of the Ministry of Justice and Administration of the time, and I believe that it will receive certain results. As for certain financial aspects of local self-government units, I do not have that information at this time, but through these amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, we create an obligation for local self-government units to supply data not only to the Ministry of Finance but also to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and through the optimization of the unit of local self-government, we will collect a lot of other data based on which we will classify local self-government units in several categories which will later be the basis for developing the powers and competences of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22415	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22416	Thank you. Dear Minister. I have one question about deputy mayors and mayors from the ranks of members of national minorities. In fact, you know that in Istria, the statute defined in the county and in most cities by the deputy members of national minorities, this law will leave most of the Istrian cities without deputies who are elected together with the mayor, but will be able to hold special elections for the deputy members of the national minority. By reading this law, it comes out that in the event of the long-term prevention of the mayor or mayor in carrying out his duties, he is replaced by the deputy who was elected with him. My question is that the deputy members of the national minorities are not elected together with the mayor but in special elections, does this mean that they will not be able to replace the mayor or mayor in the event of possible prevention under the proposal of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22417	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22418	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Law on Local Elections gives rise to that provision which you have stated that in towns and municipalities where there are members of national minorities and statutes they can arrange to elect separate representatives or substitutes from the ranks of national minorities, so their mandate is not related to the start or is not related to the head of the body, so they are not general deputies in this category who are elected together with the head of the body or are replaced when it is absent. So, first of all, I want to point out that a shorter absence and prevention has been decided in a good way for me to, if this representative body happens to appoint its member as a temporary deputy and I believe that these situations in practice will be quite rare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22419	Thank you, Minister. You can go back to your seat now. Before I ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want to take the floor, a colleague called Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22420	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a tank on behalf of the 10-minute Bridge Club because of a law that pushes in a hurry with a number of illogicalities, and we've seen that the minister has no answers. Local self-government units and elections in local self-government units are not children's toys, but when I look at this supplement in art. 19th, which adds that deputy mayors and mayors where there are no deputies will be elected by the Council where they will elect a representative body in the absence of mayoral inability to perform their duties, which means that the mayor who is directly elected will be the representative body of his choice, and in fact it does not have to be a political option that he has won, but... and any other responsibility has a mayor who has been directly elected as a mockery with a healthy logic. In fact, you're returning part of the former election from the representative body, and here you've dumped the mayor in essence as a non-essential person in that case in this political option that has political responsibility. Otherwise, this number of municipalities of local self-government, i.e. cities can't survive in the Republic of Croatia, 40% of them have no chance for a kindergarten. The transparency of the budget is very important, public procurement is not mentioned, public procurement at local levels as well as in the state is even worse in local self-government destroyed because of corruption and clientelism has destroyed healthy entrepreneurship, destroyed. Once again, Minister, teach this has so much illogicality, this article. 19. di add 43. and this item is so illogical that in the absence of mayor, another political option in parliament, he can choose his deputy, a disaster. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22421	Thank you very much. Comrade Radin, here you go. Excuse me, did you contact your colleague Dretar?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22422	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22423	And, uh, I didn't see any pardons, my colleague Dretar, so then my colleague, Radin, here you go, just someone has to shut down. Turn off your colleague, Radin. Here it is, you can do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22424	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. First of all, we are dissatisfied with the way we communicate with the respected minister because he did not answer two of the three questions asked during the replica, so I believe he will also have time to respond when we put it in writing, and of course to draw attention once again to the fact that it is a law that once again forms an extremely irresponsible form of money for taxpayers. Savings are what we admit, but we didn't get an answer that brings us, which brings us, and of course we're talking about an absurd situation once again, we're talking about a situation where, thank you to my kerbers who keep my word spoken, believe me if other people listened to me like these two colleagues I would be delighted to be true. Let's just remind ourselves once again, we are for every savings, but not in a way that is saved through the costs that are great and then said here's the little we've taken away. So we're asking for a break that the entire club is once more consulted on the potential of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22425	Okay. Now it's my colleague Radin's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22426	Thank you very much. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the National Minorities Club because we're surprised that the deputy mayor is actually chosen from the ranks of national minorities not to replace in cases of the absence of mayors for reasons that there can't be two functions that actually differ by, by, by, by content. It would be as if I were here chosen by the national minority, my national minority worth less than Mr. Bull who's chosen by most and I don't think I'm worth it, that we're worth the same. Also, this deputy mayor and mayor are both part of the executive authority and they cooperate all the time, and we now say we have to elect someone from the council who was actually elected to be part of the representative body, not the executive body. That's why I'm asking for 10 minutes of consultation with the other representatives of the national minorities. Here was a colleague of Pupovac who also drew my attention to this problem because it really, really could represent a problem. Some parties are considering who they're going to propose before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22427	Now it's my colleagues' turn, Hrebak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22428	The Honorable President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSLS and Reformers Club in order to further highlight the benefits of this transparency law. In fact, during this morning's debate, we realized that a lot of MPs do not know the difference between openness and transparency, and we also believe that it is extremely important that transparency is found in this law and it should be made clear that it is only necessary to ask the legal experts where this law will be seen that it is only a law that provides a framework for transparency because it is governed by the local self-government area, but that the Budget Act is the one that will regulate the area, which will allow all costs to be shown in real time, that every mayor, mayor and mayor has an obligation to show through the Internet, so through sophisticated tools how, in which way each kuna of taxpayers is spent. So, very clearly, very precisely, but of course, as on many other topics in this House, there is still populism and demagogy in this assembly. So this is the most concrete move on transparency that is being introduced by this law and we will surely support it, but we also want a break so that we can further show to certain MPs and the way it is formed and how the legal system is arranged in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22429	And let's get another explanation for the break, colleague Pavlichek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22430	Here, we are also looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to further consult on the amendments and additions to this law. As the promoter said, the primary goal is to make certain savings in JLS, and there will be absolutely no savings. However, another problem with this law is that the so-called law continues. Lex Sheriff, where the executive power in JLS has absolute power, and these laws further degrade representative bodies, especially with monetary amounts and fees that are precisely defined, which is absurd to define them at the annual or monthly level, especially the financial compensation of the president of the municipal bodies. In this way you demote the councilors themselves, on the other hand, you have executive power that has absolutely all the powers. And as for the statement by my colleague, Radin, I must point out that it is difficult for a deputy from the ranks of national minorities to change the mayor, mayor or mayor in his absence because he is elected by special law and in special elections and does not have as much weight as the other mayors or deputy mayors have. For example, you have in the city of Vukovar, I, as deputy mayor, have to get 6000 votes with the mayor to act this function, on the other hand, the deputy mayor of the national minority Mr. Milakovic has 600 votes and also acts the same function as I do, so you can't put in the same basket of pears and apples.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22431	Injury of my colleague, Radin, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22432	Yes, 238. The constitution is clear in this regard. By the constitution, MPs and all, all elected, all elected persons have the same rights. That's why what you said is unconstitutional. If that's how you behave in Vukovar, it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22433	A colleague Furio Radin will get a warning, it's not easy to give the vice president an HS notice, but there really was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, so that you seem to have misused me yet in violation of the Rules of Procedure... Yes, it is. [[/Adversity doesn't understand.]] Now it's my friend Bauk's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22434	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm also looking for a break. In fact, we became aware of a dramatic situation, when this law is passed hundreds of HDZ deputies will be out of work, out of function. No one in this country believes they'll lose their jobs, I think, and Boric's deputy, Klaric's deputy, pardon me, will you? If you win again, they'll be out of a job. However, there is one problem. When HDZ asks them for a job, they tend to put them at the head of homes for older and powerless at the time of the pandemic. This could indeed have fatal consequences for this continuation of the pandemic in Croatia. So we're looking for a break to consult on what we're going to do when hundreds of former HDZ deputy chiefs come to head homes for older and powerless ones like those in Split. There were 20 dead there, so it could have devastating consequences for, for the continuation of the pandemic. Therefore, if you can put them in utility companies, in state-owned companies, just don't head the nursing homes as God please don't head the nursing homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22435	Comrade Bauk, if it weren't for this serious thing, it might be funny, but it's not funny to play with it, and I'm not even going to tell you that you've already announced the results of these local elections and hundreds of HDZ victories, but that's yours, your assessment. My colleague Murganic, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22436	Thank you, Your Honor. 238. Rules of Procedure. I think it is unacceptable for institutions and people who work at the head of these institutions in retirement homes, or for elderly and sick persons, not primarily nursing homes, are led by very honorable, hardworking people and certainly all are employed by competitions, according to the prescribed legal conditions, and this situation is so abused [[Intruder: Thank you]] That it's a bit of a distaste. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Murganić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22437	Yeah, I mean, I looked back on it myself, and it was a little too much for me, but here's my colleague, Bauk, who also wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22438	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll risk my warning, so my colleague hurt her ankle. 238, and maybe not, that's what you're going to evaluate. As for the function of the head of the homes for the elderly and powerless, tell me so the archaeologist has to do with it just because he digs, you know what he digs, so we've already said that. Therefore, contests and conditions are always written according to personal conditions. So they wrote according to this... [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bauk]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22439	Comrade Bauk, but we've already had that debate. A large number of dead people all over the world are unfortunately coming from nursing homes, so let's not play with that kind of thing. I ask you to avoid commenting on these tragedies that have happened, please. Comrade Boric, here you are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22440	Thank you very much, President. Art. In 238, we again have one behavior that does not suit HS, especially from fellow Bauks because it shows that he does not understand and offends people who really do their job, and that is how we will show it for example. There have been virus penetrations and homes in the Primorje-Gorski County, especially in Delnice, especially in Volosko, etc., where it is owned by Primorje-Gorski County. And to treat me the same way as the SDP could explain it the same way We never do that and it's really beneath us every level... [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Boric]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22441	Please, let's go finish this debate. Once again, it's a difficult situation, death, I pray we don't politicize such things. Let's move on with the explanation of the breaks, Comrade Stromar, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22442	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club and the independents. Somehow they would have politicized and this law that's very important, the change of laws is now about that politicization. I wonder if our club, too, will after these amendments, citizens have a greater freedom of choice, whether they will be able to choose better quality people, choose better people, see their programs in a better quality or, and a better way? And why don't we finally go to this law in the local unit elections in a way that is preferred and that, as proven in the European Parliament elections, in the elections for the assembly, HS, here in the third term, we can also choose those who are not very fond of the political establishment in the party or if they are not big friends of the one who carries the independent list, so they are put somewhere behind, and they are good people and they want, they could be much help and be better councilmen or better mayors and mayors than these others? Come on, let's discuss it, and if we're not going to in this law, the amendments to the law now create it, but let's get ready to make a quality, good law on JLS and elections over the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22443	Now they're going to talk to counterpart Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22444	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a break to stress once again that we will support the amendments to the law as the minister presented them earlier. I hear during the replicas of the opposition MPs about the cosmetic reform of local self-government. I'd like to hear specifically what the opposition is saying, whether the opposition is going to end, how much to end the JLS so that this reform won't be cosmetic. We at the HDZ Club have been claiming since the first day that this is a territorial structure and when it comes to the number of counties and when it comes to the number of units of local self-government, it is absolutely appropriate for Croatia. When you look at the average unit of local self-government in Croatia and you combine it with units of local self-government across Europe, you will see that Croatia is somewhere above the golden environment, which means that the average unit of local self-government in Croatia is bigger than in local self-government units at Europe level. The third thing we believe is that such a structure is good, we hold that by eliminating a number of small municipalities in Croatia, it is a demographic wasteland in Croatia, as many demographers and analysts have said, etc. So I'd like to hear a quality explanation of the opposition MPs. And the third thing, counterpart Bauk is concerned that and where the deputy mayors, the HDZ chief, will be stationed, not only Mr. President, that he said he expected again a great result of HDZ in the local elections, but it seems to me that he should be more concerned with the current situation in the SDP with regard to the numerous mayors and the SDP mayors who, after these next elections, will lose that status in view of the defeat that follows the SDP in the future local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22445	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Demtlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22446	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club for 10 minutes. It is evident from the debate so far that this reform will not produce the expected results, means much ambiguity and a lot of misunderstandings stemming from the very replicas that we have set as parliamentary representatives, and the minister's answers have been lagging behind. So just strengthening the capacity of local self-government, the minister says it will be resolved in the next stages of the reform, so with this reform we leave savings to the mayors, mayors at the local level so that it is questionable itself, and... reduces only the number of officials in character and the work of deputy mayor, mayor. So this reform has neither functional nor fiscal reform, i.e. decentralisation. And another question I want to answer to the minister himself, when he asked us to explain why we've been going back 15 years. For the simple reason of the Minister, because you are now introducing by this law what was worth until 2009, means the last laws that were in 2005-'09. When we had the headship and the mayor and the deputy was elected from the council's ranks. And now you again propose after 15 years that the deputy be elected from the council's ranks, and without the participation of the mayor himself who has gained legitimacy in the elections that he is executive power, not the city council. And we think that right through this law that you suggest you have brought here one vagueness. a confusion in which a deputy will be appointed to replace the mayor in his absence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22447	Thank you. There's a colleague named Pupovci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22448	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I am looking for a 10-minute break in order to be within the club and together with colleagues from the National Minority Club to take a stand on the ambiguity that arises about how the law provides for the selection of officers of the duties of the mayor or mayor in the event of his longer impediment, because in those provisions that we have, regardless of whether it is chosen from the council, or whether it is not to be chosen from the ranks of the existing deputies chosen as representatives of national minorities, there is a whole series of ambiguities and weaknesses, in our opinion at least at first sight, that we would like to discuss before we enter into a debate so that we can know whether we are investing in amendments, we do not vote in relation to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22449	Okay. Here we are now with an explanation of the breaks. I'll take a break from 10.45 hours now. I'd just like to see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? If not, then we'll start discussing clubs immediately after the break so let's get ready for colleagues Pavliček and Zekanovic. [[MEETING AT 10:31 A.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.47 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so that we can continue our work, so I invite my colleague Pavliček, a colleague of Zekanovic, to present their views on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22451	Dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would ask you to try to maintain your level, just a second. Here I'd like you to continue to concentrate in the next few minutes, because the first part of my exposure will be quite dry, but unfortunately it's actually accurate. Vinkovci, Vukovar, Županja, Andrijaševci, Babina Greda, Bogdanovci, Borovo, Bošnaci, Cerna, Drenovci, Gradište, Gunja, Ivankovo, Jarmina, Lovas, Markusica, Negoslavci, Germans, Nuštar, Privlaka, Stari Jankovci, Stari Mikanovci, Štitar, Tompojevci, Tordinci, Tovarnik, Trpinja, Vodići, Vrbanja, Slavonski Brod, Bebrina, Brod Stupnik, Bukovlje, Cernik, Davor, Donji Andrijevci, Dragalić, Garčin, Gornja Vrba, Gornji Bogičci, Gundici, Klakar, Nova Kapela, Okovci, Oprisci, Oriovac, Pokrak, Reštari, Reštari, Siktar, Sikirci, Šamić, Šamac, Gorja Šamić, Starja Gradič, Stariška Gradič, Starilj, Starilj, Starilj, Starilj, Zakt. This is a list of municipalities and cities from the 5th constituency from only 3 Slavonia County, Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posavina and Požeko-Slavonska. If I continued to present and list all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, I would not have had enough of this today's exposure and the time that I have left. 555 mayors and mayors, 434 municipal mayors, 197 deputy mayors, 74 deputy mayors, mayors and mayors from members of national minorities, 8254 council members in municipal and city councils and county councils + council members of national minorities, several thousand head of administrative departments, several thousand official cars owned by JLS. No, these are not figures that adorn one Germany that has 83 million inhabitants and an area of 357,000 square kilometers, nor are they figures that adorn a French population of 61 million and 543,000 square kilometers, these are figures that unfortunately grace Croatia that today has less than 4 million inhabitants and a surface area of 56,000 square miles. Today we have municipalities that have less than 1,000 inhabitants, we have municipalities that don't have a doctor, who don't have a pharmacy, who don't have a kindergarten, who don't have a gas station, who don't have a shop, who don't have cafes, about restaurants that don't talk, but they all have a municipal board and they all have a unique administrative department and they all have communal offices and, as I said in the replica as long as the map of Croatia, the administrative board looks like this with 555 JLS doesn't say well. Unfortunately, such a system would not last a much richer state, let alone one of Croatia. He's just unsustainable. And these amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government are nothing but pure cosmetics. And in the very proposal to amend and supplement, we have a series of illogicalities, so instead of a deputy, we have the ability to appoint advisors. The same mayor who will lose his deputy may appoint him as an adviser, not him, but 5, 6, 10, with astronomical amounts of monthly fees and thus resolve his party colleagues, his coalition partners. And where's the savings in JLS' budget? Another absurd, in this law, is the degradation of the council itself, or the legislative authority. It is absurd that monthly amounts limit. determines precisely the compensation to be received by the council's vice-presidents or council presidents. Today, five hundred kunas won't be the same as five hundred kunas in five years. Wouldn't it be much more correct if the councilman's fee had been tied to a certain percentage of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia? And with the latest amendments and additions to the law, we've got sheriffs in JLS who have absolute power, and we're further degraded by the legislative authority, primarily the presidents of the municipal and city councils and the county councils. Another absurd of this law is that according to this proposal, we will have 53 deputies, mayors and mayors, and the Croats in this country have 90% of the national minorities have 7.62%, their number of municipal deputies, which are urban ones, which will be 74, more than these general deputies, mayors and mayors. If we are talking about savings then we must bear all and members of the majority people and members of the national minorities. Then it is time to amend the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as regards the election of their minority representatives. As I said, you in Vukovar today must get 6,000 votes to get executive power, a national minority representative gets 600 votes has the same rights and obligations as that mayor or deputy who received 6,000 votes. The only real reform is to shut down and reduce the number of municipalities and cities of those who are economically unsustainable, who cannot finance themselves, and that is the only direction we should go. And in this way we will primarily help people in these municipalities and cities because today you have an absurd situation to get 50,000 kuna in a newly born community, only five kilometers away in another municipality that is poor, you get zero kuna. Today you have a situation where in one municipality all students and the city have scholarships, in another, no student gets scholarships from local self-government. Today you have a situation where in some municipalities and cities there are encouraging measures for craftsmen and farmers in other municipalities and cities farmers and craftsmen get zero kuna. Where's the equality? By the Constitution we are all equal, we all have equal rights, obviously not because if we are born in a poor municipality we have far less rights than those in rich municipalities and cities. And I cannot agree with this number of local self-government units to protect Croatia's demographic breakdown. This is why demographic breakdowns occur, because people, especially in Slavonia, are massively fictitiously applying to cities that are financially stronger in order to exercise certain rights and only accelerate the process of the disappearance of smaller municipalities, primarily villages. Therefore, the only real step in reforming local self-government units is to reduce the number of municipalities and cities that are not self-sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22452	Now let's go, colleague Zekanovic, for one minute and nine seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22453	No goodbye. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce awards several categories each year for small, large, medium-sized enterprises, and then for the work of life, innovation to banks, insurance, I would suggest this year that the Golden Kuna be awarded to HDZ and SDP in the category of large enterprises, in the category of innovation and for life because these two parties are the biggest employers in Croatia, the biggest employers. We're talking to God about rationalization, so we're going to put an end to the deputy mayor. I personally know, and I believe that all those who watch this broadcast today have hundreds and thousands of employees who are only employed by party membership who can't wait for their day off because they've finished all the levels on the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22454	Please delete the pay phone and we will now go to another debate for which we do not need a pay phone because we have a colleague, Kujundzic, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22455	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister. Since nine amendments to the Dark Law on Local and Regional Administration and Self-Government are in fact clear, it becomes a fact of one extremely poor condition that requires a serious intervention in terms of above all integrity, and then adjustments to the conditions and of course... and above all, the indivisibility and lack of a serious problem in the approach of amending this law, which would actually achieve one more whole, more effective, fairer, more stable economic social system, is visible in the fact that you are putting it into an emergency parliamentary procedure and re-breaking one serious thing over your knees in terms of one of the most important laws, and what is even more unfair to citizens is that you are creating a form of illusion that you are trying to show the government's seriousness in reforming the local... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that it is about creating an illusion if you compare the current changes, for example, with the proposal of the Law on Local and Regional Administration and Self-Government, which came from the Bridge in the former assembly, but in this assembly, however, it is still standing in a drawer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ministers actually closed their eyes invisible to a series of finer cosmetic changes that compared to what you could have done, and you didn't even have a shred of hope for a better and more efficient local and regional structure. For example, in the context of direct citizens' decision. 3. and 4. you are only no-technically changing citizens' rights not directly to decide in a regulatory sense. Not to be interested, and I'm afraid of the indication of the strangulation of that fundamental right for citizens, the rights to question initiatives and decisions, and everything under some kind of cover of democracy that it... 20% of citizens' signatures to call a referendum which confirms this before the above the thesis of continuing to kill democracy in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bridge has defined in its proposal 10% of citizens' signatures for the launch of referendum issues, which on the one hand and logically, if we consider that the percentage at one state level is the one that is needed. We will also suggest that a valid decision has been taken in a referendum which has been declared by most voters who voted, but provided that the majority is at least 25% of the total number of voters listed in the list. Those crazy amendments to the 2010 law amended a fairer rule by which the local referendums actually decided with the majority of voters who voted on the condition that most of the voters at a particular local administration and self-government unit had joined it, which was also valid for the state level at that time. So it's crazy and trendy changes with the goal of suffocating democracy are actually changes by which more than half of the voters enrolled must participate in the referendum is actually one form of provision which and that few civil initiatives under some cover of democracy will close in the totalitarian closet. Equally, there are ludicrous and illogical provisions on the advisory referendum or petition of citizens you propose to amend, but more and more in the amendments with which, remember, you will be able to make Croatia better, this system much fairer and more democratic. You will actually have a chance to show that you care about the opinion of those of whom you receive wages, and so will we, but we will see if you will. You're reducing, for example, the number of members of the representative body by 10% and you're planning savings I don't know by which analysis. By amending you define the annual fee limit for members of the representative bodies, but look wonders, for example, in... The session will be chaired by a member of the representative body of regional administration and self-government and will have more than 2,000 kuna net at the session. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about fees in different boards or boards? So is it clear to you that someone in this Croatia has a monthly salary of 3500 kuna, and someone will get that amount for a single session of the representative body? So I know you'll already have one of you say here's the populism again in action, but that's reality, that's the reality of Croatia. From the financial dimension consumed by the executive authority and the representative body, and the fact which is the starting point of these changes, which is the micro-control of the voters you have retained, it is clear why we are not going into root reforms. So isn't it a sad picture of Croatia in which someone spends their entire working life in the bodies of local, regional administrations and self-government in the back of this people? If we add to this shame the fact that political party financing is fully revealed to the clear knowledge that politics has actually become and is kept to ourselves not for the citizens, which is actually confirmed by these changes. So the financing of political parties and activities is not even mentioned, as is the one that requires urgent changes. And do you know how many years' worth of budget funds? About 130 million kunas somewhere. If you're gonna save the ministers then you're really doing it. You can see there's a place to take it. Finance the parties from membership fees, not citizens' money. For example, how illogically you offer changes, how much illogical you offer, and the fact that you reduce the number of officials to some illogical criteria. The impact headlines on the media have repeated some kind of familiar announcement of a reform that, in the logic of how local and regional administrations and self-government work, may even be the biggest shot at emptying these changes. First, there will be no savings, and if there were any savings, they would not be as much as you have announced. If they were, if we believed that they would be about 130 million kunas, then it was embarrassingly revealed that 618 of the deputy officials you're taking an average salary of about 11,000 kunas in the country you're going to be in, you're going to say pulsism again, but people live far below the limits of normal life. But if we really believed that these savings would be as much as announced, the fact that you are actually denied by your kindness is to enable today's deputy officials to take care of one of the election periods of office, whether the front points with the Treaty are undefined or in some institutions that are the founder of local, regional administration and self-government, which has long been a practice seen, and those who are not taken care of there are still left with some opportunities for the advisory part of the job. Well, the budget numbers will confirm or deny you personally, let's wait, we'll see. Well, you haven't tried to stop this before, in any letter of law. You also did not legally reduce, for example, the high coefficients at the disposal of the executive authority. And I know, you're about to say this law doesn't cover it. Well, I know it doesn't include me, but it's an alibi for the minister's story. This law could have included that. He could have been much more complete and much more quality that you wanted and that you were on time. What kind of life is it, after all, that you have an alibi for, why don't you do something good, and you can do it? All of this I've given you could have been avoided by reducing only one number and you would have saved 15 times more than the projected savings of these changes. And do you know what number? So by reducing the limits that, the ceilings allowed for salaries in local and regional administration units and self-government from the current 20% to 10% of the budget. With this move, you would save a billion and a half kuna and disable the accumulation of this system, the entanglement system, if you had at least done it, I would have trusted you personally. If you had done so safely in another city the size of Croatia, which has 180,000 inhabitants, 500 people would not have been employed in the administration. Compares work, the town of Malbo on more than 300,000 people in the city administration have 104 employees. Well, all the illogical changes are visible in any line, article, or item of this law. So we understand the reason why you keep the existence of all units of local administration and self-government no matter how much they were like those on which you are actually planning to keep your political fingers and reward them with a nice salary that the scale cannot weigh after the term of office. Well, you could have handled it all by this law, you didn't want it or you didn't have to, it doesn't matter. Well, you could've at least wanted to limit the number of mandates to the executive, but you shouldn't have, the villains would say because of some local methuselahs they don't have where and basically have nothing without a chair, and the ruling majority without them wouldn't even be in the assembly. Is it not clear to you why it is important to limit the number of ministers' mandates in local and regional administrations and self-government? Well, ministers, for the sake of reducing nepotism, the possibility of corruption in procurement, and not counting when someone's been playing tentacles and standing in the same place for years. So when we look at the funds that you plan to save by dictating the deputies, what the MOST has been asking and praying for years is confirmed by the fact of a vast senseless regional structure that is purpose to itself. So imagine just saving if you would accept the MOST's proposal and you would just lift these counties? The amount of savings would only be to reduce the number of units of local administration and self-government. Although you would ignore it and I am giving it to you for the right, the Bridge proposal and various objective studies, people who do not belong to the parties and experts of various ages and have considered it to be a country the size of Croatia... 150 units of local administration and self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22456	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22457	We all know that high expectations have been made in public from how much savings can be saved in reducing the costs of local self-government units. We all know how many pictures and stories were created in the public that if a drastic reform of local self-government is made, there will be honey and milk in Croatia and there will be money for everyone. I don't think so, if I didn't think such a picture was true and I don't think such a picture is true because if I did, I'd be sure to stand up for it. And there's no doubt that the proposed law was actually made under the pressure of such a picture. Let's cut as much as possible, and let's not do too much damage, let's go cut costs for local self-government units. If we hadn't already had through the tax measures and through the financing of local self-government units, so the set of laws we discussed last week, which introduces a drastic restriction on how much pay and administration costs can be allocated to the local self-government unit, I would understand Mr. Secretary of State that we are going to increase further with this. But if we go like this with these two measures, I'm afraid that we will strongly mutilate the units of local self-government and violate here the basic idea that the legislator had when he decided he had a direct choice of commissioners and his deputies and councilmen and that we would create some kind of hybrid or hybrid state. I also understand that the legislator can and can do so if there is a valid and justified reason, but work under that picture under the conviction that if we abolish the municipalities, then Croatia will be a much cheaper state than it is. No, they won't. He won't. It's not unfortunately the biggest source of waste in this country. I'm not going to talk about it right now. The indicators are much more serious in other places. What I'm trying to say about this law right now is that I'm not making too much of my life complicated for the government and the ministry because they're not people with no good will and that we're helping to fix this to the extent possible. First, as far as deputies are concerned, so take the chief and cut their salaries as it is almost reduced with certain exceptions, reduce their capacities and the ability of their administrations, and now we will cut off their salaries, and we will strongly round them and strengthen them to work for units of local self-government, we will very much awaken the entrepreneurial spirit in them and awaken the initiative to work for the benefit of those who chose them. Those who teach us such a lesson don't work without working for money because money is the most important thing to them. And some are, if it's a job in question, but this is a job that someone has to be paid for, and this is a job that needs to be done as well as possible and in as good a way that we agree on. Therefore, the state has had to rationalise, but not to destroy what makes it a state, and the system of state local self-government is that. How do you do it, how do you reform it? I am absolutely about to talk about it here, those who know better university professors, researchers who know probably a better picture than we know, but not to handle the media picture because it is not mastered by teachers or advocates but by the masters of someone else. And get back to this. As for the abolition of deputy units of local self-government that are below 35,000 inhabitants, except for those who are county headquarters such as Vukovar and Pazin, where Knin will rebel and will say why we are not in it, but let's put it aside now. With this proposal, you have opened up and peeled the question of the deputy members of the national minorities who will be even more ficus and each will be able to silence them and tell who you are, just because they are chosen by a different procedure. And what they are chosen under a different procedure is not their authority, their powers are the same. And in this way, if you were to do so, you would actually pass, propose a law that would be contrary to the Constitution, which was warned by fellow Vice President Radin. Therefore, we will go with the amendment and propose that at the beginning of the term of office, the Chief or Mayor suggests that in the event of its longer prevention he may be changed or elected deputy from the ranks of national minorities and the ranks of the Croatian people where the Croatian people are in minority in a local self-government unit or from the municipal council, but in the beginning one and the other option that shows justifiable and best views of the municipalities. Secondly, what we want to say is what I want to draw attention to, this law makes it difficult to represent members of national minorities in the local self-government unit. How? The number of councilmen is shrinking, which is fine, we accept, we share the same fate, it decreases by 10%, but the threshold for coming to the term of office is increasing. Where there is now a possibility of being elected by a national minority, tomorrow in some units of local self-government such a possibility will not be possible. This will benefit some of the lists that they have used and so far that they have realized that this criterion and that someone must be in the municipal council can be satisfied so that if they use cunning, which is to put some members of the Hungarian minority, the Czech Republic, the Serbian woman at the bottom of the list and you say there are secured three places for members of the Serb community, one place for members of the Hungarian community they will not be able to, their lists will not be able to cross the threshold according to which our list will receive grace, someone who does not deal with politics, someone who does not represent the minority, someone who does not speak on their behalf, and we will get another number for the composition of that council. Is that a good thing? It's not. Is that supposed to change? You should. So please, before you go to the adoption of this law, change the article. The 107th century 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th should remain 1st and 2nd and 8th because we think that in this way what has been practice so far and what has so far been a constitutional arrangement value to be disrupted by this law and for this reason we suggest that you change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22458	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the national minority on behalf of which the respected representative Furio Radin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22459	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Every club or representative here will concentrate on a particular segment, so to speak, of this law. Our club is most interested in the part about the term I've been using in this House for many years as well as not only the representatives of national minorities but all those who think that all people are the same. And that's a term or a term better said, positive discrimination. A particular concern among us national minority representatives was the first to give rise to a provision by which the Deputy Mayor’s rights were acquired to only the local self-governments which had benefited from changes in the law since 2011, the changes that Mr. Bauk wrote if I remember well, and that would have caused certain problems with us in Istria, especially with Italians in Istria, because with us, especially the IDS party, but also with other parties, in the package and in the municipalities and in the cities and in the county, they always offered one or the mayor or deputy who, according to the nationality of the Italians and such was one part of the statutes, one part predicted this, so that in some self-governments and in the county, we had even two deputies which we didn’t quite agree, but the law was so. Therefore, the Italian Union, the town of Rovinj and the Istrian County wrote a letter and I co-signed it to Minister Malenica who actually gave us all possible assurances that where it is provided by the statute of the Deputy Mayor that there will be and elected there whether he has been elected so far in the package or has been elected by special, special elections. And I thought that it was all or almost all actually decided until today when this one saw this problem that there were deputies of the first and second categories. I immediately and very syntheticly say that there can be no chosen people whose function bears the same name and who actually have different, different competences or competences as they say here, I disagree with that word, competence. Why? Because the constitution says so, because the constitution says that MPs in this assembly no matter how they are elected whether any minority or Croats outside the country or on the basis of a general law, regardless of in which election unit, have the exact same rights. Their voice is the same. What they say is the same weight from what other MPs say. The introduction of a different interpretation of the deputy mayor who is now being abolished in municipalities, and remains only for minorities, but the different interpretation of what is also called the collapse of the concept and the notion of positive discrimination tells us that we are not all the same and the small door says Pupovac is not the same as someone else, I will not make a name that I do not offend anyone. Boris Milosevic is not the same as the rest of the government's vice-presidents. And if we want to, I'm not the same as the other vice presidents. Excuse me, I'll tell you one thing in secret, between us, I agree with that. I absolutely agree with that, and I think it's actually one discrimination. There are, of course, objective situations then. We were stuck about it, so then the debate went the wrong way, she was going around the essence, and she was going around actually content and competence of the mayor. But actually if the debate was going in this direction I would have brought her back and said, and I would say that we can, we can discuss this problem, not whether they're the same but who's going to replace who by saying that the first one on the replacement list is actually the mayor, the deputy mayor who was... national minorities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the situation can happen and we are absolutely aware that this deputy is absolutely the opposite of, of, of the majority, the chosen majority and then creates a certain, certain problem. So we decided to support it, and I signed it, and my colleague, Pupovac, has previously stated what kind of amendment we're going to give, and I'm going to sign it, so that the deputy mayor elected from the ranks of national minorities, replaces the mayor, but it also determines and determines it immediately, immediately in the first 30 days, determines the mayor, but it can also be one of the councilors he determines, but that and remains then. And I'm gonna say one more thing and that's what I'd like my IDS friends to listen to me more carefully. Not only for the first 30 days, but in the election campaign you say let those who go to the election say that in case I win, I will be replaced by that and that function. That's what I'm proposing, and then national minority representatives will listen to what they say and they'll find a way to break that into election results. It means that, but primarily it has the right of a deputy, a deputy elected from the ranks of national minorities because, because he has the exact same rights as others, as other deputies, the same values, everything else introduces in fact discrimination in this home, in this political life and in the very idea of positive discrimination. And there's another little thing, and that's that there's a number of deputy mayors in the election law in that opening section, and I would recommend that the minister change that to take it down because we can't know right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22460	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22461	Dear Vice President Reiner, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. So local administration and what it means for the everyday life of our citizens is definitely perhaps the most important institutional pillar for the quality of life and to move the satisfaction of our citizens, our people with our lives. The local administration is the one responsible for roads, public lighting, plumbing, sewerage, electricity, kindergarten, through the counties for homes of health, hospitals, so all that makes those most important segments of life directly related to our fellow citizens and our citizens. And what grieves me personally is that we often talk about the need for decentralisation, about the need for reforming the local administration, and then disarm ourselves by means of a large yes, every time we need decentralisation, that we need reform, and then what comes before us as parliamentary representatives, and what should then be exercised in law on the ground is shown to be either cosmetics or absolutely improbable. With decentralisation we have not moved from the dead spot, our country is still the most centralised country of the EU after Greece and what is visible with the latest package of tax reforms adopted last week we did absolutely nothing to move from that point because every government so far has been concerned by the income of local self-government units. Each tax reform comes down at the end of a debate on income tax rates and on how this same income tax will be shared. Just to remind the public that it is and should be the only income of the local self-government unit, so I don't know exactly what all governments have given up so far because, as a result, they are bringing citizens higher wages and higher incomes. I have never once seen that we have encouraged a debate about value added tax or about profit tax and said, so let's return something to where it comes from, where it is created, because this VAT and that profit tax created in Novi Marof, Koprivnica, Čakovec, The imagination is of these people. It's not thanks to the minister or the prime minister or anyone who's here on this side, it's thanks to the people who live there, who work there, and all that they create and spend in their city that's only the income of the state budget and the national authorities, and then through these tax reforms, we're returning to you through compensatory measures, even though we never have a clear plate and a clear bill as far as it actually comes from somewhere, and how much of a person's finger is washing or pointing back. Do we ever have a chance to listen to the debate that one minister will say, that we will leave 2% of VAT, 2% of the profit tax in that and that city, the municipality, the county, because it is created by people who live and work there. We didn't see that coming. And then this tax reform shows how difficult we are to go towards decentralisation and as if we are not interested at all and today we have a new functional reform of local and regional self-government. Now I'm gonna make a little joke that this reform looks like someone in that train and rail joke, under the A train ride coming to the end of the track and then say let's keep building the railroad just to get the train going. Then B, the train comes to the end of the track, there's no further track, and you rip the rail back and you put it forward to drive still forward and move on. But we have chosen reform C, the train has stopped, the railroads are still gone, let's not all get off the train and rock the train so that people at least think we're driving and that something's going on because we assure the public that we're going to cut down the number of deputies, and that all those deputies who will no longer be deputies will be out of work or will not find their own place to be who the counselors are, whether who the members of the board, whether who the directors are definitely mocking common sense. The job after these elections where the same mayor stays won't just get a deputy who in that movie "The Falcon didn't like him", if the boss, the best man, the boss, the Sokol didn't have a job then probably won't give him any replacement position and that's clear as a jam. That is why it would be much more important when we talk about how much this savings will be and how much less citizens will cost to take the exact plate, so let's see the second year how this reflected in the share of salaries in the original income of the municipality, city or county, then see if we've made real and true reforms or if we've only made cosmetics to show whether we're reducing the number of officials or maybe we promised it to the European Commission when we've negotiated all those packages that have been difficult in billions of euros, and let that help come. But it would be much simpler and much easier for all of us to know what we promised to do and within what time. The initial reform of the local administration should come from exactly what I just mentioned, and that is the share of wages in the original revenues. All of us who at least know a bit about this local administration are aware that already today we have maybe half of the municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that break through 20% of the share of salaries in the original incomes of that municipality. There are certain, we may also have some cities, and unfortunately we have some counties, because when you compare the County's incomes with the County's headquarters cities, you see how much they're full of ridiculous ratios and how much county knows to look weaker than that. And then why are we running away from what we can clearly and empirically show numbers, which is that we really have too many municipalities today, too many cities, too many counties? And yes, it's not something that can be solved, perhaps in no government's mandate, we can't solve it in the 3rd year, Denmark, which developed the country of us, has solved that 7th year. Let's talk about it, let's show the citizens, look at this reform we're doing to make you live better, because today we have villages in certain municipalities, especially where we have national minorities where people still don't have electricity, not to talk about kindergartens and anything else that makes normal life. And this crown crisis has shown us how much structural change we need in the economy, how much we are still exposed to tourism, but they have also shown us all the illogicality of the territorial structure that the Republic of Croatia has today. So how far into the public debate in certain municipalities that people couldn't get their medications, couldn't go to a doctor, couldn't go to a gas station, couldn't go to a shopping mall and buy a needed specter because they live in a municipality where there's nothing there, but if you don't have a good reason for the pass, you can't go. Well, wasn't that a little bit of a bell, an alarm, a flashlight that obviously something in our territorial structure wasn't right and that we should change? Is breaking through 20% of our incomes constantly not an indication that we have municipalities that have no meaning and cannot serve the needs of their citizens, and we have them? With that last tax reform when the Balancing Fund was introduced, and the only thing we got was that the mass of the municipalities on, now watch out, for a million kunas of original income received by 4-5, that's not the Compensation Fund, that's not enabling even development, it was just artificial proof that some municipalities have their own sense and that they can survive even though already in this package, the measure is said that these compensatory measures may be in '22, '23. They won't, so we'll go back in the direction of having the mass of those who break 20%. And from the corner of the mayor of Koprivnica, I would like to have a debate on the reform of the local administration, to draw a line on who can be a municipality, a city, a county, who doesn't, because it doesn't make sense because it doesn't have that financial power to be, and not to say that we're going to encourage functional merger because I don't know what the municipality and the mayor and the municipal council are going to vote to end themselves and not be chiefs anymore. And to make one table then with clear rules because it can be a city without a cut, it can also have a share of the mass of wages in the original revenues of about 9%, it can be carried out on a line of public procurement, it can be a model of transparency that all accounts are clearly visible, all of this can be done. There are a lot of good examples in the Republic of Croatia, I'm glad my Hive is in them, I'm glad that our neighboring Belovar is in them. For this we need political responsibility, political courage, and after that we will make a real reform of the local administration, not a reform of "we rock the train, so everyone will think that we are rocking, driving and something is not happening" because, realistically, this reform is not going to happen to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22462	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSLS and Reformers in the name of which time will be shared, as I understand it, the respected representative of Hrebak and MP Martincevic. First of all, the esteemed representative of Hrebak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22463	Thank you, well-respected speaker of the assembly, dear esteemed fellow Secretary of State. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, we will support this law, colleague Martincevic and I will say more about the law itself. Of course, there are a lot of arguments during today's debate and for and against, I respect some views of the opposition, and here is even my colleague Mayor Jaksic has also said some things that I agree with. But what I'm going to support this law for is just seeing the law still moving forward. Is it as much as I would like to personally, very possibly not, but for reforms, big reforms work at this time of crisis I'm not sure how much we could handle it, and how much we could achieve a national consensus on this issue at all because my personal position and attitude of HSLS on the county I think it's already known, but that doesn't mean that with two agents we can change the world, but we can change Croatia. We can change Croatia in those segments where 30. No one's done anything. At 30. We need to put in one Law on Local Self-Government that mayors and mayors and mayors have an obligation and must show their citizens how they spend their money so that they don't buy cool millions of kunas, that it doesn't happen that they spend money on various banquets, parties without cover, that there's no situation happening at the very top of the country where they've taken literally hundreds of thousands of kunas on the diaries only in one office at the top of the country, so that's what happens when someone populist tells me what you want to do, so it's all some small things. No, it took 30 years. to come up with a situation to show citizens how we're going to spend their money. Corruption is the most widespread at local level, all scientific communities say. Corruption is the most widespread at local level. They call us local sheriffs, well, gentlemen, I'm not a local sheriff, not a local sheriff or my colleague Jaksic, not a lot of other mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, certainly not a local sheriff or colleague of the Yankees, so there are some of us who do our job with honor and integrity, and I know there's more of you in this assembly, and I know that there's both left and right you agree with me, but maybe some of you won't say it so loudly and clearly that you don't mind some of your other colleagues who like to stare at the state or, excuse me in the city budget. So in my opinion this one small step, which seems small is a huge step because in 30. We haven't seen him. This law sets the framework for transparency to be introduced. I hear now and some debates on the other side of this assembly say the difference between, it's clear to me what's the difference between openness and transparency. This law sets up a framework, and the State Budget Act, which takes effect, we hope, immediately at the beginning of next year, will bring about all that is needed to make a transparent life, as it does in Bjelovar, as it lives in the Holy Week as it lives in some other cities. And I heard some colleagues say what they're making up, so it already exists. There is no such thing and don't sell such a demagogue that it doesn't exist, it will exist the moment we pass this law, when it becomes mandatory for everyone, because it's a shame that in two years since Bjelovar introduced it so St. Sunday so some other cities and municipalities no other fellow has introduced it, it's saying enough about how important it is to them, and we're sending a strong message to the public that we're not all the same and that there are some honest, honest and responsible we're doing our job. And those who have not brought it in, and those who bring it in, will admit it without any problems. I propose just what will be important for this topic, which is that the state will call a tender to come up with an applicative solution for all so that it doesn't cause any additional costs to local self-government, where I would practically benefit from all the mayors, the mayors, the parish one software solution, but that's a question for some other Ministry of Finance for some other law, a bill to the budget where it will continue to be regulated. It was our electoral program, it was I would say our agreement of the HDZ and HSLS coalition partner and I was personally the subject of mockery said they'd screw you up HDZ, you won't meet it, it's just a story for the public. We have come today that I will gladly raise my hand for this law regardless of what we have criticism in some other segments, but after 30 years I have no right not to raise my hand for such a proposal that will introduce transparency where with only two MPs and with little support from HSLS we will enable our partners with this ruling majority that at least tomorrow Croatia in terms of local self-government will be one step better successful and send a message to citizens that we are not all the same, that we are not all local sheriffs and that there are us who do our honest and responsible work. The only damage is, the only bad message in all of this is that we need a state-level law that would push us to do it. So our club will surely support this bill. I look forward to the fact that transparency will be a legal obligation and that we will all have to give citizens bills how we spend their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22464	Thank you. The respected representative Natalija Martincevic will now continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22465	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As the People's Party of Reformists systematically advocates implementing reforms of local and regional self-government, we welcome the fact that the system's optimisation and implementation of savings in local self-government units budgets as well as in strengthening transparency in spending public money. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are heading towards reducing the number of officials, but considering the fact that the RH budget is 150 billion kuna of this reform will save potentially 100 million kunas then it is unfortunately clear that we cannot, unfortunately, still talk about serious and essential reform here. But the very fact that we are going towards a reduction in the number of officials, which is disproportionately higher than the number of residents and budgetary capacity, and which the vast majority of citizens consider to be a privileged group in our society, is a welcome change that needs to be supported. The People's Party of Reformists believes that there is no reason not to adopt our proposal, which is in the wake of the arrangement of local self-government in a large number of countries, for example France, for the majority of local level officials to be volunteers. Since we have not already decided to go to more serious community integration reforms, our proposal has gone in the direction of at least one official in his unit of local self-government running and being elected as a volunteer. Volunteer officials are not a burden on the budget, volunteers will volunteer to perform their duties, who have a resolved issue of their existence, which can have a very good impact on their behaviour, because they are not dependent on the function, are not dependent on the necessity of keeping the function in place and do not have any pressure on where they will work once their duties have ceased. I think that we are all together aware of how much this fear of the possible disappearance of the source of existence can affect the decision-making in various colors of colored political decisions. I think this law should foresee this possibility, it is particularly important when we consider the fact that we have 575 units of local self-government in Croatia today. There are a whole series of municipalities that have just over a thousand inhabitants. In the proposed way, savings would be achieved in the budget, system rationalisation, but at the same time would ensure a functional continuity of doing business of regional interest. It is our view that a step further should be taken and that it should be taken in the direction that at least 50% of the municipalities have volunteers. This approach would encourage the commissioners to consider rationalising their administrations, for example having one accounting joint, one communal director, etc. and thus achieve more significant savings than is foreseen by these amendments to the law. As I often speak of the Varazdin County, I did not mean today, but here I was drawn by the language, so when we talk about real and concrete reforms and numbers at the time of the former mayor, today Agent Štromar in Varazdin County was 101 employees, after the arrival of Mr. Cacic's new mayor, the number of employees was reduced to 88 and 20%, respectively. We also reduced the number of employees from 110 to 54, and we reduced the number of employees by 50%. How did this affect the quality of work of the county? From the bottom of the scale where we were in 2017 at the time of the former mayor Štromar, after attracting European funds, we became the first and most successful county in Croatia with 20% less employees. This is an example of how to streamline the system. Here several times today it has been mentioned that there are possibilities that these people who are now deputies will go to the positions of counselors, directors, etc. And that's where the Varazdin County established a good model, and that the advisors that exist in the county are volunteers. Finally, we support the savings-enhancing measures, we propose a model of introducing volunteer officials, but we also draw attention to the biggest problem of our local self-government, which is the fact that we have formal decentralisation shown in a large number of JLSs, but not the actual decentralisation that needs to be in finance and in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22466	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll begin by quoting the minister from his opening statement. You were ministers in the opening statement and rightly said that the reform of local self-government, local and regional self-government was often called for in this home. Judging by what we are offered in these changes and additions will continue to continue, we will continue to call for real reform of local and regional self-government, it seems until we get to the opportunity to implement it ourselves. A little progress in rationalization as you said it was indeed done. However, as my colleagues have said, my predecessors have been asked to make this progress on rationalisation, and of course the application is also questionable, it is a questionable practice. It is quite possible that in practice it perverses to the extent to which we actually find ourselves, we find more or less in the same state. All together, even if with some optimism we look at this possible progress in rationalization it's actually just scratching on the surface, almost just, just cosmetics, it's not reform at all. In fact, even in this sense, even these amendments and additions to these laws have been done and certain damages have been done because how it usually happens when reform is needed every reform that seems to be, which is not, which only ends on surface changes by presenting itself with reform each such quasi reform, it is actually blocking and delaying that real reform. The example is countless, probably the most famous and certainly socially important of these recents is actually stopping, such a similar stop to curricular reform. You have these amendments and additions to the law not only did you not deny the sheriff's powers and the mayors who have done and are still doing very much damage, it produces very much damage in many cities, not only that you did not do it but you did not touch what we really need, which is a real reconstruction of local and regional self-government. We have 555 exactly, exactly 555 JLS, 428 municipalities and 127 cities. Many of these cities, especially many of these municipalities, are absurdly small and economically unsustainable. In reality, they hardly serve the citizens, they serve the political elite more. And here's how economically unsustainable many of these municipalities are, here's what the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government in Art. 8. For each city and each county and in particular for each municipality, the capacity of tax revenue shall be calculated or calculated. This capacity is calculated as an annual average per capita, and this is the annual annual average of 5 g. Income tax collected and even increased by a maximum, theoretically maximum cut rate, whether it is introduced or not, it is therefore the tax capacity of all our municipalities. Reference, reference value of these tax revenues, is the average of these capacities in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia for cities. The reference value of these facilities for municipalities, however, is 150% of the average in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. According to the same article of the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government of the municipality, they have the right from the famous Balance Fund which has now shifted to the burden of the municipality's national budget, so they have the right to distinguish between their own tax capacity and that reference amounting to 150 % of the average. We therefore do not implicitly but explicitly in the letter of the law, in the letter of the law, therefore, the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government we actually acknowledge that municipalities in reality cannot function or for their functioning requires at least 150% of the average, of the national average. And in the end, I'm going to say this, and I'm going to say this, in part, to the presentation of my colleague, Popovec. In the Law on Local Elections in Art. In St. 1st, I will quote: The number of members of a representative body in the order of members of a national minority will be determined by multiplying the proportion of individual national minorities in the total population of that unit by the number of members of the representative body, and the number obtained is rounded to a whole number without a decimal remainder. This without a decimal remainder in reality means to you colleagues and colleagues that this obtained share or guaranteed number of seats for members of the national minority in the representative body is therefore rounded down. Such an observation also came in public consultation. However, in a public consultation, the legislator was manifested in a way that rejected this remark by calling for the same questionable decision of the Constitutional Court as early as 2013. I would like to remind you that, on that fact, such an inappropriate and cynical rounding has already been pointed out by the public defender in her 2017 annual report. Therefore, in the recommendations in that report for 2017, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The D.A.'s attorney, the D.A., points out that's exactly what rounding down is all about. Even today, at the end of 2020, we still think that we have the right to ourselves and our fellow citizens, members of national minorities, to be so cynical that their share is expressed in a decimal number and that we remain in this and that we insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22468	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Klaric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22469	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we're at the beginning of the debate and we're all kind of using numbers, so I'm going to start with that data. So, today in Croatia there are 428 municipalities, 127 cities, 20 units of regional and regional self-government, there is, of course, the City of Zagreb, which as the capital has a special status of the county, a total of 576 units of local and regional self-government. Why am I talking about these numbers? We have heard from previous discussions, so this is where they begin and end all speculations of justification or injustice of such a territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. If we go back to the past, and I think it is good to go back and at the time of the creation of an independent and free state of Croatia, it is important to note that the establishment of such a system that, with more minor changes in continuity, has actually started in '92. That is when the basic legislative framework was set. It is also important to point out in '93. when the law governing the territorial structure, the self-government, the electoral system and the way in which the local self-government is financed has entered into force. That's when the first local elections were held. I repeat this because it is important to remember the foundations of today’s country, the times, and the war circumstances in which it was created. It is precisely these circumstances that we often forget, and it is important to keep an eye on it because only then did these formed cities and municipalities in the beginning have to face a number of problems of starting a mechanism for successfully managing the city and the municipalities. Of the practically non-existent structure, human resources and other infrastructures, insufficient incomes, war circumstances, the destroyed socialist industry which, by shutting down the Yugoslav state, was thus already doomed, in such times and circumstances from year to year more or less successfully standing all of today's local self-government. Many modern - day cities and municipalities have grown from former local communities, some of them with a small population, a vast area to be managed meaningfully. And I'm saying this for reasons that in Croatia all these years, especially lately, and in continuity, we've seen and we're witnessing this, and today we're having a debate that's trying to reorganize the local self-government system. Proponents of such ideas suggest that cities and municipalities be abolished, so certain counties, mostly propose changes in the country's governance model and I think it's dangerous. Their public insinuations are inefficiencies, underdevelopment potentials, overcomplication, lack of stability, irrationality, the whole series of theologians we could hear today, and even the fact that today's formation is the historical romantic idea of the first Croatian president Dr. Franjo Tudjman, I've heard that a lot of times myself. The nettles at his lectures. The fact is that today's structure reminds part of the historical territorial units that, through Croatian history, have kept their continuity in one way or another. At first glance, when problems are shown how often they show it to anyone who is not detailed in the work and functioning of JLS can be made to be right, but the facts deny them. They're showing a different picture and they're killing all these things. From the first day of the establishment of all to one newly formed local self-government, regardless of its size, they are ready to launch their development. Even when they mention efficiency, what is evidence of this efficiency? Are not proof of these efficiencys of dozens of newly built kindergartens, hundreds of kilometers of built or unclassified roads, hundreds of kilometers of sewerage water supply systems, newly built schools, school sports halls, organised public transport, environmental protection projects, health institutions, newly built necessary infrastructures, care for all age groups of population, incentives for economic development, hundreds of millions of EUR are attracted to development and invested in funds from European funds in the JLS areas. Who did this? Maybe a volunteer? Or was it done by the mayors and mayors, councilors in the city and municipal councilmen, the employees of the city's administration? There are also tens of thousands of pages of project documentation. Who prepared them? Space plans in all municipalities and cities throughout the Republic of Croatia. Who made them? Thousands and thousands of land particles, we have witnessed an unsettled cataster and grant books in the Republic of Croatia. Who's running it, who's doing it? Maybe a volunteer? Maybe that deputy over there we're gonna take out? Maybe that councilman whose number we're going to cut? Maybe that couple of million kunas we're gonna save in the state budget because we're gonna cut someone off? This way you could really count it forever. But it is easier to criticise, and if this is added to the adjective of the local sheriff just before my predecessor we have heard this adjective, without error the work of not only JLS leaders is humiliated but also countless hours of work and a huge engagement of employees in city and municipal administrations. Perhaps one should make up, or calculate, because we are often some mathematicians, how much damage these and those critics have done to JLS by reporting, obstructions, various mantras, often invented and slowed down, and some projects by JLS that were launched before realisation. But ultimately, what is good and what has always proved to be the best is an assessment of citizens. They are citizens who evaluate work and us here in the assembly and those down in cities and municipalities. This has also been shown in previous elections and HDZ's victory in the consolidation of this government, and the results of such a correct decision are the Pelješki bridge, funds from European funds, and changes and changes to the law, all that is happening in the entire Republic of Croatia. And before we go to the scale of these amendments and the addition of the laws, they're not that big, they're not so brutal, and we don't have too much space to discuss, but we need to highlight some things and look back at these thesis of the many critics of today's local self-government that talk about the weak development potentials of JLS. All of Croatia's geostrategic position, with its natural resources, economic potential is a huge resource. And that, such a resource can only be used in this way together in synergy and these small municipalities of both the city and the government and the ministries and us here in the assembly. Amendments and additions, additions to this law that are before us, are not changes that have touched all these problems I've been talking about. Previously, they go towards saving the costs paid by the deputy mayor and mayor, and the mayor, while reducing the number of council members in JLS representative bodies. The changes limit the amount of costs to council members and representatives of representative bodies. Finally, I see absolutely no reason not to accept these changes, and the effect of the changes themselves will be judged only after its application in the other half of the following year. I must warn of indicators of the effectiveness of quality management of local self-government. Let us recall the devastating consequences of the SDP's legislation on the removal of mountainous mountainous area status in the JLS area in Gorski Kotar, as well as in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Only Gorski Kotar then lost 52 million kunas of original funds by quick, superficial, reckless changes to legal regulation. Of this blow, with all the efforts of today's government such as compensation measures, funds for winter service, various assistances to the Goran municipalities and cities, they have not yet recovered, and demographic decimation is becoming more and more pronounced. It was exactly what we were warning about this Assembly speaker. This is the absurd criterion of a population development index. Today in the Republic of Croatia there are cities and municipalities of up to 10,000 people with a budget greater than 100 million kuna, which have numerous companies where the head and mayor of the assembly of these societies. He's signing fiscal responsibility and I believe, here's the minister, I hope you'll respect the proposal that the deputy who is scheduled by this bill and should be elected by the representative body, appoints this directly elected mayor. That's exactly why he's responsible for the budget that's being passed, for every kuna in that budget, and I think it's a good solution and it's an acceptable proposal, and I see more speakers talking about it here. Also, if possible, consider this second criterion relating to the population Of the 35,000 inhabitants, to end this, since there are municipalities and cities that manage truly huge resources, large funds [[Intruder: Thank you]] And I think there's enough transport and once again... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22470	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the IDS, and will speak the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22471	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. Today, we have before us amendments and additions to the laws for which, according to government announcements, we expected something revolutionary or a complete turn. But when we got it on the table, when we read it, we thought we got the wrong papers. Where is this revolutionary law that will make our citizens live better and what is reforming in this reform? Reform should probably mean that the lives of citizens in our cities and municipalities will be better. However, they need to be clearly told that this will not happen. Serious reform means a combination of structural and functional measures that are implemented periodically because this is how developed countries that have spent these changes almost every decade do so. And what exactly are we trying to do? We've seen in these little under three hours that no one knows, no opposition, and no part of the ruling. All together, it seems like the government wants to pass some law to meet the quota and put a clutch, and the fact that nothing significant has changed, the fact that it doesn't know how it's going to look in practice, whether it's going to make any more significant changes and some progress for our citizens, it doesn't matter. And that's a big problem that hasn't changed in years. Spectacular government announcements that a lot of money will be saved, that municipal chiefs and mayors of towns with less than 35,000 inhabitants from the next local elections next year will no longer have deputies, that the number of council members and representatives in municipal and city councils and county councils will be reduced by 10% may sound good when it comes to this, but essentially it is eye-smoking. Huge savings are announced, but what are these savings, minimum or no savings? Again, they scratch exclusively on the surface, and the problems remain. As for the change to remove the deputies, one question about who will replace the mayor or the captain if I cannot perform my duty for a certain period of time? The law says, a temporary deputy from the ranks of members of the city or municipal council. Whether this will be a quality viable solution in practice, we only see it for the rest of us because the fact is that the deputy must have been more familiar and involved with the affairs of the municipality or the city. And in addition, the mayor who has been elected directly and has received the citizens' trust to lead the city or municipality in the next four years has absolutely no influence on that election, can't even suggest a candidate from the council, which means that in that situation we are going back to what I said and in the replica, 15 years ago. It may occur that a candidate who has not received the citizens' trust in the management of the city, and has continued to act in the city or municipal council, assumes control of the city or municipality tomorrow. So we're wondering where the voter will be? Where is that person's electoral legitimacy? The mayor, as a representative of the executive authority, also bearing fiscal responsibility, I don't know if you took that into account when writing the law, but you definitely should have, because this could lead to a number of problems and we'll probably see it in the future as you listed a colleague after 5 months. We are for rationalization and we are for saving in local budgets, but none of this can go to the expense of functionality and efficiency which could affect the lives of citizens, and in our view this functionality of these changes and additions is at stake. If in a city without a deputy, something happens to the mayor that makes him unable to manage the city, who has the electoral legitimacy to propose to the person who will replace him besides himself? We therefore propose and this is what we have written the amendment that the mayor, within 30 days of his entry into office, propose to the council a person who will replace him in the event of his absence from the ranks of elected councilors until the mayor's return to office. These changes will not bring anything, and they can complicate anything and that is the taste of this reform. I'm afraid that the improvisation and surface that we unfortunately have been looking at and managing the pandemic can be recognized in everything that comes from the government, including this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22472	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HNS and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Predrag Štromar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22473	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing an extremely important issue, which is the functioning of the units of local self-government and regional administration. The municipalities and cities of the county are the executive power closest to our citizens. Most citizens just need services and municipalities and cities and counties and we need it to be of interest to create such functional municipalities, cities and counties that citizens can use the service quickly, efficiently, however digitally possible without going to the counters and without long waiting. Efficientness must be our first priority. With these amendments to the law, we certainly don't get it, and I'm aware that we can't go into big changes for a few months before the local elections, and big changes are necessary. They are needed and very difficult to implement because we have a lot of mayors in this House, mayors, we have people who know how it works, but usually when something needs reform, then there are resistances. And that's why next year we should adopt brand-new laws that would apply in 2025, but that already next year all the rules of the game are known and during the elections that will be held in '25. How will the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, who will change them in some cases, how many councilmen we will have in certain municipalities, how they will be elected should we now think about it. We want citizens to have more freedom of choice, we can only do that if we have a preferential vote. I am sure that we cannot introduce this vote for next year, and in 2025, the preferential vote would allow our voters to choose for themselves people who will be in councils and assemblies and who will decide on those many acts that are very important for our citizens from municipal infrastructure, from municipal services, from education, from primary education, from high school, from kindergarten. We have a lot of real things being decided by local self-government units. The other thing is not only the preferential elections there are the merger of municipalities. We should reward all those municipalities that will join in the next four years, of course and with the referendum, and that the mayors, the mayors, and in five years we have elections for larger municipalities and cities in the first step voluntarily. You certainly each in your midst have a few municipalities that you know are much harder to operate on their own, and if they were to join together, they would work better. With me in Varazdin County in the south there are three municipalities that are Breznica, High and Breznički Hum and whenever I talk to these people both politicians and citizens they think it should be one municipality. So let's reward them with funds decentralised by 50% more in the budget if they join together and make one kindergarten in the center of the three existing municipalities and our citizens benefit from it. Let's try carrots not only with beatings. Finance is very important, there is no Mayor of Koprivnica here who has talked about it and criticised that in the last three years nothing has been done for the municipalities to have more money. On the contrary, in 2014, the SDP government made decisions where almost all the funds were cut above some of the normal funds in municipal and urban budgets, and three years ago these funds were generously increased, a much larger part of the income tax is poured into municipal, urban and county budgets and may the mayors, with their councils, implement much more than ever could. And I'm on the verge that even the profit tax, one part of the profit tax must be part of the incomes of the local and regional self-government unit. So why? It is then that the mayors, mayors, mayors, create better entrepreneurship conditions and attract entrepreneurs to themselves and to build and work industrial zones, employ their plants and there, and thereby further increase the overall economic growth of the entire country, and in particular, income is seen in that municipality. I think the mayors should have a longer term than four years. I would extend it to five years, but the chief could only use two mandates, be chief in two terms. In those 10 years, any idea if you're a capable commissioner can be translated into realisation into a concrete contribution to the social community. In many countries, too, the regional and local administration functions in this way. For years, we've been talking about reforms, cuts, red tape, which is a growing burden to us, so let's go and act. The state without counters, marks, piles of paper is a state that has potential, and this may be our last chance next year to reform municipalities, cities and counties. We have referred to this existing law one amendment because we are not clear who will be changing the mayor, the mayor who has no deputy in case he gets sick and isn't at work for a month. Councilmen amongst themselves? I don't think that's right, but the mayor has to choose one of the councilmen who's chosen by the will of the people to change him in such situations. There's always something to be signed, there's always something to be decided on, but it wouldn't be those crucial things budgeting for next year or the start of some big investment, it would be the regular job that needs to be done. Then I have to say something else about employment, I was called today as I had a lot of people employed in the county, so a new mayor came along with a special advisor who was volunteering, reduced the number of these employees. Yes, but you can't see how much the number of employees in various agencies and in newly opened, in health homes, in public health services has increased. Well a special advisor says I'm a volunteer, that with a few thousand in the county, but with a few many thousand in one agency that's open and there she's employed. Her husband was also in love there in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22474	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Penava will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22475	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and state secretaries. In view of the matter that is ahead of us and in front of the Home Movement Club, I will present the following views and actually think that the proposed amendments to the package in question are, in their basic cosmetic nature, aimed at the upcoming local elections and completely out of line with the current moment in which the Republic of Croatia is located. And we are therefore in no way clear why the draft amendments to the law did not approach a more comprehensive, more thorough way with a much stronger package of proposals not only in terms of these laws but in a whole package that relies on the topic of work of local self-government units that would ultimately lead to fundamental shifts on the ground. We heard in the end and it also says in the ministry's statement on the discussion of this package which is publicly available where you referred and said that it is not a topic that would require a much wider approach to resolve certain things, but I really don't understand what time it is when it will be appropriate because I fear that what is current it is only one fact that Croatia especially units of local self-government do not have that time anymore. That this is the way to listen to a little bit of terrain, and when you look at a little bit of what the terrain is saying, he's saying that very soon, and maybe even now in moments we're talking, while we're here discussing that things are going to go so wrong that they're not going to ask the executive authority or the government of the Republic or any of us here in the Assembly because the vital capacities of our units of local self-government are empty and devasting at such a rate that I'm afraid a very large number of them have crossed that point without going back, that line where they needed to take a much stronger radical stance, they're going to be much braver, and we unfortunately missed it. Unfortunately, this leads to a system collapse. Some of me know that it will seem like a missed topic, but I think that today we should have talked about the other day was the show about Karlobag, the head of the Municipality of Karlobag and his associates and the cramping attempt at something that, perhaps 15 years ago, would have caused a mockery of trying to place all the funds that he actually has in keeping people through the design of new jobs. We talked about a colleague, Klaric, touched the infrastructure, kindergartens, though it was important, but I long ago realized that he would be so happy to replace all the roads, all the facades we have in the town of the new ones, and that these roads would be dusty and full of children. Unfortunately, what we don't recognize here is that part of our colleagues touched that 376 out of 428 municipalities have less than 5,000 inhabitants, and that's what I believe is old data, it's almost 88% that at least our municipalities with 200, 300 inhabitants are 400. We're not saying anything, I guess no one has the courage to look in the mirror or in other people's eyes and say that in 18 years we're doing, a whole series of our counties, I'm going to start from Osijek-Baranja County with 331.000 dropped by estimates, so these are DZS data in the middle of last year to 273,000 18% of the population. And I can row from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County from 133 to 106 20% of the population lost and so in turn through Sisak, via Primorje-Gorski, Karlovac about Slavonia that I don't talk. Unfortunately, at this infamous summit is Vukovar-Srijem County whose decline is from 205,000 to 151,000 per estimate, meaning the year when the list is done it will be a debacle of such proportions to simply ask a man what we do. Today, this percentage of population losses is 26%. Not that there were no proposals, it was going in the direction, I must commend the government in one part at least when Vukovar-Srijem County and the City of Vukovar were in question part of the measures that we formed towards bringing state-owned enterprises, so the Call Centres Knin-Vukovar were opened, it was also in the plan and Gospić Croatian Post Office, HEP, but there it cares. I appealed, you talked about how rich we have a rich country, but what are the woods worth when the forests are available and behind the distribution of these raw materials are interested groups. Which is worth the wealth of rivers when raw materials from these rivers in the form of gravel, we cannot exploit sand unlike the surrounding states. We had an initiative in Vukovar about building a hotel, an investment worth 180 million kuna is not going, I don't know why, but here's not going. We have a ramp just from the government of the Republic of Croatia. I brought to Vukovar Mr. Darko Pervan the man of four billion euros, the king of the world's wood-based floor coverings, he wanted to invest money, he can't put aside the mob, next to the structures that rule this country in the background behind all the policies, they don't really belong to anyone, the man's ramp is down, you can't have four billion kuna, you can't have 1800 licensed patents, now how capital markets, that's not enough for you in this country. We had an idea with the new Investment Encouragement Act in Vukovar, unfortunately that law takes a lot of cities and municipalities, I wish it hadn't, we couldn't get through it. And then we deal with reading this law that has good sides, but it turns out that the main problem in deputy mayors, mayors and mayors is in the number of members of city councils, city, municipal and county councils. I don't think so, I think this approach is deeply to blame, that the current moment has required of us a much broader notion of state policy, of statehood, of survival is really us at this point in time. All indicators are going in that direction, but here I am listening to the debates and looking at this proposal that is ahead of us, we are dealing with things that aren't irrelevant, they are important, but at the level of priority they are still far below. And the only conclusion I can make is the question that's being imposed, does anyone expect any of this to get any better? Of course, this isn't even about the laws themselves, they can't do things right by themselves, but if they needed a more comprehensive approach, definitely. I also listened to my colleague, Radina, I have some more time, and I must say that I am sorry that you failed to follow the proposals of the Association of Cities of a quality association where the profession really prevailed, there were many quality suggestions and should have listened to them. What's about my colleague, Radina, which is a little bit amazing to me, we're all about equality and why I love natural science, math, is that in mathematics, the sign of equality is uniform, we know what's equal, if we're equal, then we're equal. However, when we enter the sphere of philosophy, suddenly the notion of "positive discrimination" is introduced. Wait, if it's a positive discrimination, then if someone's being discriminated against, then we're not equal anymore. However, this syntagma is long and successful through the political sphere in Croatia, and it is also not good. The provision of the main future is running out of time and I'm going to say that it's completely unacceptable and very bad progress, and it's actually the point of this law that you're the mayor's deputy, so you kicked out as a representative of the directly elected, elected executive authority, and with that act, in my opinion, you took one step backwards because I really think that these measures that have so far been of great quality and that this step is in the wrong direction. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22476	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU, and on behalf of the club will speak a respected representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22477	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. So here we have today launched a significant debate over a very important law on the functioning of the Republic of Croatia, especially those lower administrative parts such as municipalities, cities and counties. I agree that there are some good things in the law, but generally the law, and I'm not going to say it's bad, but it's not going to get what that law should get. I also believe that the time of the 6 months before the local elections is not good for the adoption of such a law, should have been passed at least a year before, so that those who go to the elections, run for office, either individually, partyly or in any other way, can be prepared to get the best possible results. Unfortunately, this law hides behind a cover of savings, rationalization. So when you reduce the members of the presidential bodies that there are over 8,000 by 10%, you're all aware that it's not some significant rationalization. But what's wrong with this is the move of deputy mayors, mayors, mayors and all those who have been working in the administration for a long time, who are listening, and who know how associations work, so they know that the "Bird of Peevica" also have a president and vice president or vice president. When that president, the first person to manage an association, in this case the municipality, city or county, for some reason will be prevented from being replaced by the one he chose and the one with whom he went to the campaign, the one with whom he represented the programmes on which he received the elections and the one he put on the list next to him to be responsible for the management of the unit of local and regional self-government and to present his results at the end of the elections to the citizens i.e. to file an account. We are here in some way barging the levels of government, so we are coming to the opportunity that the legislative authority should choose one who will change directly elected to executive power, which I do not think is good at all. It's clear the intensity of this, the water's running to one mill, and I'm asking you gentlemen when the water's on one mill, the rest are dry, it's going to close, what's going to happen to this mill when it breaks down? Normally, it won't work what it's supposed to. I think that this law should have been better prepared far better, that it should be extra-biased because it should be done for a long time and that we will take this one step back because all these savings will fall into the water by ironing and alignment after the election. You understand that the entanglement that is in Croatia looks like a normal thing will continue to work, it acts will continue to work. I'm going to start with one of my examples, so I'm coming and I'm born in the city of Kutini. We in Kutina have in power HDZ and HSLS, two deputy mayors, and in addition, after their election, we still have the head of the mayor's office, so he didn't have enough two deputies, but he still needs the head of the mayor's office. The same situation is in Sisak-Moslavina County where Mayor Ivo Žinic, also the HDZ who must have both deputies from the HDZ, means not even one is enough, which has a minus in the budget of at least 300 million kuna, we belong to one of the poorest counties and the most lagging. There's a town in that county. The municipality, the town is Dvor, one of my acquaintances said it was a city where the bus turned, and my wife asked me to take her to Zagreb just to watch the windows so she wouldn't buy anything. Such a mayor has 300 million kuna minus. You've heard for sure about a lot of his nonsense he's done in this crown crisis, one he did the other day, so I'll probably talk about it tomorrow. But it just shows that this law won't stop everything that's going on. And then I'll go to another city, another city called Long Resa, is the mayor of Tomislav Bolar from HSS, Deputy Katarina Srakovic from SDP and Miroslav Furdek from HSS. His deputies immediately after the election decided they wouldn't take the fee that belonged to them, not to say that the fee was to Mrs. S. Catherine's double the income she has in her workplace and they decided to invest her fee that wasn't small about 2.2 million kunas in children in her town, in playgrounds, 17 children's playgrounds, in informing two schools with projectors and a laboratory for photography and for a high school they have in the city area. So it can be different under this law because I'm the deputy mayor and the mayor chooses whether to receive compensation or not, so it's on their conscience that they decide on it. In this law we must certainly have a deputy mayor, chief, mayor, but we can put in provisions that he should be a volunteer, that he does not receive compensation until the moment he is activated as a deputy in the prevention of mayor or mayor, which is very logical and will not change anything but what seems to be not wanted here, and that is that the mayor himself chooses who will change him, which is logical and you very well know it and in your cities he will be dissatisfied because he will not be able to choose who they want. Unfortunately, here's a quote I just read. The thought of Cicero, who says “the nearer the end of the empire, the more insane its laws, ” is that the case here? We do not think about the needs of citizens at all but think about the needs of parties, certain groups, individuals. those who have and so much. A colleague of Hrebac said, commenting on this law, here explaining whether to make big turns i.e. reforms in times of crisis? Well, you either do a fair reform or you better not do it if it's not time for her, and any tampering will cost us dearly. Normally, people who go out or usually don't go to elections will not study this law, and they simply don't care what kind of law it will be because they'd rather say they don't go to elections that they've had enough of it, some will pick up their stuff and go outside of Croatia into some more real system where justice and justice are known and justice and raise their children there. We're aware of that. Some are aware, some seem unaware. The situation at the local level is catastrophic, sit in the car, drive through Slavonian villages, not only through Slavonian, so go to Banovina, the houses collapse from themselves, people have gone, some roads of nature heals and destroys, and that's just the fruit of policies that run, meaning bad policies. I also simply don't want to write amendments when there's no point, you're refusing all the amendments, I can only appeal to your conscience to try to listen to us opposition advocates small, so some of it accepts because believe that even the biggest fool can sometimes say smart things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22478	Thank you very much. The following is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS in a name to be spoken by the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22479	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I'll start with what Dario Hrebak said. For him, this law is a small step that pleases him. Small steps are for small people who keep their chairs in the company of the corrupt and corrupt majority for their petty Jews. But I am glad that on the other hand, Michel Jaksic, on behalf of the SDP Club, finally began to talk about the need for a complete, meaningful reform of territorial reconstruction towards the reduction of the number of counties, cities and municipalities. I hope and expect that the SDP will remain consistent, that it will not all stop in these words, that through its public policies, it will advocate and prepare the implementation of such territorial reforms, would be a major step and a change of direction in SDP policies, which, unfortunately, from 2011 to 2015, had the opportunity to do something about it, but unfortunately did nothing. And now to return to my own political agenda. When I presented my goal and program, I said that the state was made up of institutions, space and people. Our institutions are weak and inefficient, and the system is designed to suit the creation and maintenance of political corruption. The space as one of the most important developmental resources is abandoned, devastated precisely because of poor governance and poor planning in which often corrupt interests prevail over public interest. The existing territorial fragmentation is what serves the most. This is seen in examples of changes in spatial plans in the process I describe as the Kuščevisation of Croatia, but such examples are the whole sea. The Adriatic is not enough to fill up with all the stories of corruption at local level, with a wave from the HDZ ranks. Let me say something about that third component, so the institution, the space of the people. What's the matter with us people? People are actually the greatest development potential, but we have driven people away, because they have lost confidence in a system that is deeply restricted to corruption, and no longer guarantees legal, social, or any other security. And based on my professional knowledge and experience, I claim that corruption of its roots is deeply embedded in an existing network of excessive numbers of counties, cities and municipalities. Through numerous legal entities that establish these same counties, cities and municipalities and which they manage, corruption is capillaryly spreading and flourishing. Because everything a local sheriff can't do in his county, city or municipality can in any legal person his local unit rules and manages, because these legal entities are completely out of control and supervision of any kind. The existing territorial structure and I say legal persons who establish the local units of El Dorado are for the thieving of all kinds. And if we looked at the map of Croatia, so we painted it red and blue, given the local government that a local unit has, then we would realize how red Croatia is. Why is there such a political resistance that anything in Croatia is fundamentally changing? Well, you know why. The existing territorial system has been carefully designed as an ATM to extract budget money for the maintenance of party accounts and as some political party is bigger and stronger, the revenue from the budget drawn from the existing territorial structure is stronger. As you would have said and described, it's all legal and transparent. Yes, it's really transparent to do that, but I'm asking a question, is it fair? Is it fair to those who fill public budgets? Well, it's not. Due to the tax and parafiscal burdens introduced in order to be able to service, we have experienced both unnecessary ineffective, often extremely incompetent, but politically similar and entangled fit, we have broken the economy, and when we have a broken economy in which only those entrepreneurs who are good with some local public procurement head have broken the system of public services. So a broken economy cannot serve public services that would really serve citizens, not the political establishment. And when we broke the economy, we also broke the social security system. The question is, what do we do? Well, first of all, there is a need to strengthen those forces that will eventually form a different composition of the Croatian Parliament, a different parliamentary majority, because this majority will certainly never implement any reforms. The territorial reconstruction should be the mother of all reforms, but in order for this reform to be meaningful, in order for it to achieve its ultimate goal and this is a better standard of living for all citizens, it cannot function as an isolated island, it must be monitored by tax reform, not by cosmetic and the establishment of an effective and independent judiciary. None of the above will ever be the HDZ agenda. Today's corruption day, so I'm going to say something about it. A year ago in the campaign for the presidential elections, as part of my presidential programme, I arranged for the Croatian Parliament a draft Anti-Corruption Strategy. Its content exceeds the current minister's knowledge and other capacities, and the strategy is unattainable for implementation as long as the parliamentary majority is such, and it has five chapters. The first is full fiscal transparency, but not as advocated by Dario Hrebak at local level, but full fiscal transparency of all state bodies, all ministries, all public budgets. The second chapter is the conversion of the existing Commission to decide on conflict of interest into a much stronger body, so giving muscle, stronger muscles and powers in prevention. The third chapter removes vulnerabilities in the judiciary, based on the analysis resulting from the reports sent by the competent authorities to the Croatian Parliament The fourth chapter is a territorial reconstruction related to the fight against corruption, and the fifth is a reform of electoral legislation. [[Intruder Reiner: We can go back to the topic, I would ask you.]] The debate on these chapters would be a question of defining the direction, where Croatia is going, and Croatia is not going anywhere as long as it is headed by the HDZ. What do we need? Well, we need round tables, respecting the profession that has long ago given its analysis of what needs to be done in territorial reconstruction and in the reform of local self-government. It is necessary to engage all those who have experience and knowledge from practice, but something like that can only be done by someone who cares about Croatia and the well-being of its citizens, and that is certainly not the current minister, and it is certainly not you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22480	Thank you. We will now move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr Klaric, in his statement on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, expressed our position on this law, but what is not less important than the territorial structure. I will most of my five minutes look back at the territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia, which is largely established, defined by the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities of 1993, later in 1997, and even later the amendments to that law have established several units of local self-government in Croatia. So we in Croatia are absolutely at the point of view that such a territorial structure, perhaps a better word about such a territorial structure is appropriate in the needs of the Croatian state and its citizens. On the political aspect of the need of 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, which is in the position of the county at all, I have neither the time nor the need to enter into the political justification and economic and regional justification of such a structure of the area of the regional and regional self-government units, I will say more about the need for this status of units of local self-government. When I said earlier that this system and the number of units of local self-government were almost entirely justified, I primarily thought about these small municipalities for which, perhaps with the necessary financial and economic analysis, it could be discussed, but I'm saying it's a very small number of municipalities. In the context of economic, traffic, and part and historical, but perhaps, first of all, the demographic development of Croatia is to be observed by these units of local self-government. About how well it was done in small units of local self-government over the past 27 years, Mr Klaric also spoke in the section of transport, social and municipal infrastructure. And if it hadn't been for those small local self-government units with all due respect for the larger environments, that unit of local self-government would have been... But this will be the time when the debate comes as announced by Mr. Minister in the part that discussed the functional merger of individual units of local self-government, or the functional merger and unification of transactions stemming from the work of a single unit of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We often, not us but advocates of that sharp cut in the part of the establishment of units of local self-government, bind themselves to the position of municipalities at the time of the Socialist Republic when the 1990 democratic changes welcomed 101 units of local self-government of the former assembly of municipalities. But it is forgotten that at that time there was, I have the information from 1973 but it is more relevant information that I have not been able to find now, and we will also find that over 4,000 local communities existed at the same time. I don't suppose any of us think that removing a small municipality there would stop the need for those jobs that used to be local communities, and today, in large part, local self-government units do. It is forgotten that these local communities that were almost in the ranks of these small municipalities were the same legal entities, had their own account, conducted referendums where people pleaded and allowed some projects to be completed there. Since I don't have enough time, when we talk about this simmering of units of local self-government in Croatia, I'll remind you quickly what this means, for example, in our countries in the environment. One Italy has the average size of a 7100 local self-government unit, but first I say Croatia has 7,747 inhabitants per unit of local self-government. France 1,805 times less, Czech Republic 1,600, Slovakia 1,700, Germany, to which we often call 7,100 times, Austria 3,421, so of all who I listed the average unit of local self-government in Croatia is the largest, largest. I'm not saying it's the only basic criterion, but when we think about it, we should take care of this. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22482	Thank you. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22483	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Branko, one question. It is said that the saying says that if a lie repeats itself repeatedly, it will become true. However, lying is a lie and cannot be true no matter how many times anyone has repeated it. And we've heard here today about local sheriffs, and that stigma often appears in public, and it's most often from the ranks of opposition MPs. I, as mayor of a small town, am convinced both fellow commissioners and commissioners sitting here cannot accept that. What exactly is this cowboy thing looking at? If we're under the public eye, our local public, the media, the state bodies that are in control, then I don't see any place for such cowboyry. And the creation of some sign of equality between us that we're all the same, I'm determined to say that we're not because, if there is, let's say such sheriffs, they eventually get to Remetinz. And that's why I ask your opinion, is that by this law give some authority to the new mayors and mayors to do their own will? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22484	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22485	Thank you, Mr. Begonja. You asked the question and you gave the answer. I must say that for a time... after 16 years after the election of the leader of the units of local self-government has been established, the local council and the county councils have chosen their leaders. And then a consensus was established in Croatia and at the level of Croatian politics to approach the selection of the first people, responsible people, the holder of the executive authority in the units of local and regional self-government in a way that... directly chooses. I think that's good, although often a situation is happening that actually gives to some who think it would be better and that their choice continues to stem from the majority parties and councilors in their city or municipal councils and congregations. Therefore, it is clear that the mayor's position and the commissioner are not any local sheriffs, yet they must act according to the law as well as any other...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22486	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22487	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. There's been talk here that the law hasn't changed in 30 years, and it's certain that we're going to take a step, and there's better change than none, and I believe that in the next election cycle or two, it's going to come to the level we want. It is also important here to point out that we in these small municipalities have people who are responsible, who know how to use money transparently for the benefit of the city or community, and it seems to me in fact that I would like to hear your opinion that the problem is that the opposition is only critical, they see nothing good, they see nothing better than a simple criticism for criticism. And I expect we'll certainly have a better law than we've ever been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22488	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22489	I thank my colleague Simičević. Serious democratic states have been solving their organisation, structure, part-rounding affairs of local self-government for decades. This is not a project that is addressed from election to election, but this system of local self-government must be defined and be very careful when accessing it. Here comes the minister, I welcome him, he said in his opening speech and announced the possibility of a functional merger of individual units of local self-government which I am the advocate. If we have in Croatia, and we have three types of cities, we have the City of Zagreb which is in the position of the county, we have large cities, we have ordinary cities, so all other cities I see no reason to form two or three types of units or municipalities in a similar section of business and authority units of local self-government. There are strong municipalities in my county that have more budget than cities in my county. And there are those small municipalities that barely end with an end, so all of this needs to be coordinated through this announced amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22490	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22491	Dear colleague. It is enough to point out the beginning of such a structure itself, and what needs to be stressed is that a large number of these small municipalities and cities that are most said to be connected, abolished or something is exactly in those areas where the greatest war destruction was and that still today cry out for demographic restoration and any other restoration. It is unnecessary to consider at all the model for these municipalities or cities to be shut down, however, they need to be strengthened, fiscally strengthened, a combination of their functions with neighbouring municipalities and cities for the purpose of demographic renewal. It's the only model we can think about... and the model was established in '92. The day of this country's creation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22492	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22493	Thank you, colleague Klaric. And in the introduction and now you've said everything, and given the longstanding status of the very successful Mayor of Bakar, you're extremely invited to talk about this topic. It is precisely that you stated that in these areas of Croatia that were affected by the Homeland War, where there is a significant reduction in the number of inhabitants of the abolition and unit of local self-government, as the last dam that protects that space, I also said to the community that this unit of local self-government survives. But it must not be on the burden of others, by means of which the citizens of that unit of local self-government set aside for public needs in Croatia, in most parts, they return to them to survive there. What the esteemed demographic Angelko Akrap said was the abolition of those municipalities that you mentioned now, they would mention the demographic desolation of that space. I think you should take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22494	Thank you. The Honorable representative Jelkovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22495	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. Yeah, well, you said some of them are just in principle pushing for decentralisation, and we're really in favour of such decentralisation that will be in the interest of our citizens. First of all, in these small communities, only those people can best protect their interests. If we are to keep people in these areas, then we must enable them to fight for what they need and what their interest is. These mayors of these municipalities together with their employees are themselves struggling to implement those projects they need most in the area, working with their counties, and also with the state. Without them, projects would be less achieved in these areas, and no one can take care of them as well as they themselves. That's why I think everything we do is going in the right direction. Of course this isn't the end, and for that serious reform we have to prepare for longer and it's not working overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22496	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22497	Dear colleague Jelkovac. In the introduction, I said that decentralisation is the descent of public administration jobs to the level of residence of citizens who need this public service to the task of each state and the more successful it is. The decentralised state generally coincides with the developed state, and it is very important to continue this decentralisation that we started. It is precisely this minister in his term that we have brought down the tasks of state self-government which were normally carried out in the counties, but they are practically being resolved and the views on it have been brought down at central state level at the county level. And I expect to continue that decentralisation both towards the counties and towards the cities. And a number of laws at this point can go into further decentralisation, for example maritime well-being, etc. I'm not saying now that these are laws that can help further decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22498	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22499	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. When we compare ourselves then there is a constant cry that we have too many cities, municipalities and counties, if we just compare ourselves here with our neighbouring Slovenia then it has 212 municipalities, for example. with half as many inhabitants as Croatia and 12 statistical regions. So that's what he says, and we know that Slovenia has also developed its small places in the past Yugoslavia for a time, and has been dispersing its industry and dispersing itself in these smaller places, smaller cities, less environments, and has not concentrated it in large centres. So this intensity that this law achieves precisely to develop the whole of Croatia evenly, not just certain centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22500	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22501	Thank you, Mrs. Peric. Here's an example of Germany, for example, Germany has 83 million inhabitants, has 11,553 units of local self-government and is the average size by population of 7,100. If our 555 units of local self-government were put aside by the City of Zagreb, which raises our average, then we share a much larger number, when we would remove the City of Zagreb and then divide the total population by 554 we would have almost a hundred inhabitants the average unit of local self-government that the Federal Republic of Germany has. And Germany is closest to us, all other countries of the Central European Civilian Circle have far fewer inhabitants than Croatia has per unit of local self-government. So we can talk about some minor reduction in units that I can't and when you help them can't be, but to make a more significant change in the number of municipalities here, I don't see any valid reason, and that's what I've been talking about all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22502	Thank you. Now we stop at this point because it's usually at one o'clock we go to the point of view. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are running out of time so we will continue with the point and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, Josip Boris. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14:15 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22504	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow ministers. Here's something I want to say about these three laws, the Law on Local Self-Government, the elections in local self-government and the City of Zagreb, because the debate has shown that there is a great interest in the MPs to talk about it. When we talk about local self-government reforms over the past 30 years, there has been a long way to go to this day. '92. The law was passed in '93. applied, for the first time local self-government was elected let's say according to the new law in the Republic of Croatia and then the largest number of local self-governments was created. Some came from '93. By 2006 when the last five came, so they were '93. Or '92. Practically created by the will of the legislative body, and those that were later produced were the express will of citizens who asked petitions to both their premises or the place where they lived to be declared or to be municipalities. In this way we are here today in today’s time that again when we talk about municipalities is different from the way we started. The municipality is made up of space of people, administrative and fiscal capacity every little or bigger space, and through this the state has been acting in some way over the past 30 years. The first amendments to the law were in the period from 2000-2003 when the number of councilors in the then city and municipal councils was reduced, after that in 2009. A direct selection of local and regional self-government leaders was introduced, in 2012 something changed again, and then the possibility was introduced that after two years the elected deputy mayor, the mayor, could continue. In 2017, a newspaper was introduced to recall the directly elected leader with a referendum and to disband the council if he does not bring the budget in the current year for each of the following year. And now we're in 2020 when it's proposed to remove the deputies. It's some kind of brief review that happened through these local self-governments by forgetting to say that in 2009, the headship was abolished, that was what we've been witnessing for the past 30 years. And now that we're talking about this status of these municipalities or cities, we hear from many that they should be abolished. Why were these municipalities generally created, let's say mostly cities were more or less determined from the beginning. The municipalities were created because people wanted it because they realized that in their space that there are enough people who have enough potential fiscal capacity no one cares about the way they wanted it, no one would grow as a municipality that someone in that space cared in one way to make it satisfactory. So we have islands that have one local self-government, we have them with seven local self-governments, and then on the continent, we heard almost 550 local self-governments. We came all together in that here we now hear a number of cries about the removal of such municipalities because they are actually expensive. Cities don't need to be abolished if they're not expensive. What's going on here? What happens is he's trying to force one topic without any major analysis. If these citizens stop paying everything they pay now in the municipality, if we attach them to another city or municipality, it means they don't pay any municipal compensation, no municipal contribution, no other tax income of that municipality or city. I'm the first to... the municipality to abolish, if they're going to do so in a way to attach them to another local self-government and there they'll pay all the same, then I'd like to see these experts explain to me whether the cost of an executive and legislative body is some 200, 300,000 kuna annually a justified burden to the economy that no local self-government should be held in that space but that it simply needs to be abolished. For what? Because he won't pay anything. It's all going to pay, whether it's in town, whether it's in some community or not, it's just like that. All laws apply equally in the City of Zagreb as well as in the smallest municipality. Both these commissioners and mayors are obliged to respect and implement them equally with seven employees as well as some with 300 or 400 employees and there is a difference. I don't like those stories, but we're simply in the time when local elections are coming and I wish those who advocate the abolition and territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia that where they're going to run say they want their local self-government to be abolished because it doesn't make any sense, that the burden is on the economy and that they don't contribute to anything and then let them try to go to the elections. Never has the structure been the will of a man or politician always been made by the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22505	We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22506	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. You said in your presentation that the municipalities were actually the wishes of people living in that space and in fact the whole life is taking place within that community. And what do you think of the intentions of opposition MPs who say that these small municipalities should be abolished? Does it seem to you that these small municipalities that now have certain projects by abolishing these municipalities in order to disappear projects and to disappear the development of the entire municipality? And do you think these are political decisions for which, ultimately, when elections come, they will bear the responsibility of the party that proposes this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22507	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22508	Thank you very much. Col. Simičević, so I explained the way the municipalities were formed since '93. By 2006, those 15, 16 new municipalities. I won the municipality in 2006. And I know why we made it, and then they assured us that with our fiscal capacity, we couldn't have a community. Today we have original incomes bigger per capita than the City of Zagreb, and I am saddened to hear stories that should be lifted because it is called the municipality and has 1,200 inhabitants. Why do those who advocate such a thing say that? Because they don't have any local self-government leaders, we don't have them anywhere, and it's no problem for those who don't have anyone to stop everyone else who behaves at a certain local or regional level, so these stories are about the abolition of municipalities and cities and counties. They know that in those areas they are not worth it and that they will not come into the situation given the percentages they get that they can ever lead any of it, possibly some small municipality. Mostly after the election, they try to treat leaders in a way that attracts them and thus promotes them as politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22509	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22510	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you were talking about the importance of these small municipalities, as well as the payment of commitments in these small municipalities. So here I would say, for example, the village of Tribunj, which was part of the City of Vodice, and many of their inhabitants did not experience that it was their town, and the less they paid their commitments to the city, the less they invested in their settlement. After becoming a municipality, they saw it as something of their own, they invested very much in their volunteer work and a lot of love, and that community has made great progress since it became an independent municipality. Of course, they are increasingly devoting funds and more and more funds are being invested, with European funds you can see it at every step.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22511	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22512	Thank you, colleague Yurichev. So we have established that these municipalities have their own meaning and as ruling we support the territorial structure as it is now, we do not want to abolish the municipalities, the cities, or the counties except what we have said we want their functional merger in certain segments of their own powers and that in some way they manage their resources effectively. I say again, when someone convinces me, but an expert really knows what's going on on the ground because one theory and what we have from the state level is laws that are being passed, but life is down on the ground in these municipalities and cities and there are all the events that are daily and you have daily problems to solve. How are we going to solve them in a way that connects with some major cities or municipalities that no one has suggested until now except that everyone is looking at some numbers and saying this is worth it, because the cost of the executive and legislative body in the municipality is practically the only cost you can save, you'll have everything else at your expense and in other local self-government, so let them convince me that it's cheaper than what you have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22513	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22514	Dear colleague. You're talking about abolishing the municipalities, but I think the municipalities can never be abolished they can only merge, join perhaps not formally, but by certain activities, so one of them can carry out one activity, the other one, the third one, or have a common municipal drive or thus function. But if you don't think that some other laws are very important and should be regulated and adapted to municipalities and cities, it's a set of tax laws, so let's say the profit tax is also paid partly in municipalities and cities to be interested in chiefs and council members to adjust their conditions for entrepreneurs, and there is now the Law on financing units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22515	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22516	Thank you very much. My colleague Štromar, well there was a time when the profit tax was part of the income of local self-government, we changed it because we thought it might be the most just because obviously there were cities and larger cities that could say very well about it, let's say good revenues, the state slightly less, and the small municipalities had nothing. Then the state took over the profit tax and started firing parts of the income tax on local self-government. What I'm trying to say is that whatever citizens pay in their community that they will pay in any other if that municipality joins any other local self-government, no one will release them from any cost, and that is why these discussions are pointless because no one has come here yet and said who needs to be attached to whom and what will happen to the space that will be left without their administration and their fiscal capacity that they created and had in relation to what they would get with some new structure that would then be different and cheaper as entrepreneurs say, I guess they would not pay anything and everything would be free just because they would cross over the number of municipalities or cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22517	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22518	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Boric, the former municipality of Drniš, had over 840 km of square surfaces, over 60 settlements, and was in a group of underdeveloped areas in the municipal administration who worked more than 40 employees. Today, the City of Drniš with 355km2 of 16 employees, 27 settlements no longer belong to a group of assisted areas, while at the same time solving a number of issues from the sphere of municipal and social infrastructure. Each one has solved and implemented two to three European projects. Is the existence of small local units justified from this data alone, and is this in the spirit of the European Charter of Local Self-Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22519	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22520	Thank you very much. Comrade Begonj, here all morning we have been trying to communicate with the HDZ club precisely with data from the opposition colleagues to prove to them that we are one orderly state, territorial and every other sense, and that these discussions about abolishing are purely for political reasons simply pointless because no one has offered a solution to what with all these other municipalities that will join another city and what will be the benefit of citizens who will give up their community to pay the same thing to another city. When we left in '92. or until 2006 because no one wanted to worry about those areas the way it was supposed to be. Where cities were largely concerned about larger settlements that had more than 1,500, 2,000 inhabitants did not make up municipalities because they were satisfied with the way local self - governments operated, and they formed where they saw that these local major self-governments did not care about settlements that had a lot of inhabitants and could have their own fiscal capacity and did not exercise their right to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22521	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22522	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, in your debate, you pointed out that some colleagues consider the municipalities to be a cost to the economy. However, I can tell you from the example that precisely because certain areas had the status of the municipality, that these municipalities made good use of it, the spatial plans for entrepreneurial zones in their area, built, equipped, attracted investors, and now in these areas works thousands of our citizens and have exports with over a billion kuna. I therefore believe that thanks to the municipalities' initiatives from the field of Varazdin County exports far away, far up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22523	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22524	Thank you very much. Comrade Uncle, I agree with you and I don't think there's much to prove here anymore, I think we've been very clear. As far as these bill proposals are concerned, we as mayors, the mayors where we've lost our deputies, I've shown over time how we've become smaller and we've given up on individual bodies, although today many are sorry for the headships because we've come to the situation that you can't gather in colleges, especially in small municipalities enough people to make quality decisions. But speaking of abolishing deputies, perhaps the minister turned or opened the space to do so at the state level because a number of agencies, institutions and funds have their deputies, and there might be, if the reason was the savings then it could go a little bit too, so we can finally solve that thing because this is how it's gonna turn out that only some of them are left without what they had, and some are going to stay what they were and that's not what the basic message of this law should be, but everything that's going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22525	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22526	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. When we discuss these legal proposals, we are essentially discussing the political and administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, which was set up in 1993. That is, we are discussing counties, cities and municipalities. But we are also discussing the detour of business from their jurisdiction: pre-school, primary school, secondary education, environmental protection, settlements, parks, squares and playgrounds, economic development or the construction of economic entrepreneurship zones, construction and maintenance of unclassified local and county roads, street lighting, water and draining, health care, and from the medical family medicine, all the way to the hospitals. We are discussing everything that is important to our citizens, and I think they know best what is important and more important to them. So I'm really surprised by the statements about the abolition of counties, cities and municipalities. Do any of these colleagues and colleagues here feel that they know better than any county, city and municipality of its citizens and their elected representatives? Does anyone feel that young families will remain in rural areas without kindergarten, school, or primary medical care? Do you feel that such areas will grow faster if they are eliminated from being able to take care of their own territory? Who in their right mind should take care of them? So here I would like to give a number of good examples. Just in the area of Varazdin County, a number of municipalities took advantage of that status, e.g. The municipalities of Jalzabet and Gornji Kneginec do not have the status of the municipality is the question is, would they today have entrepreneurship zones where thousands of people are employed and with exports from these zones measured in billions? Would the Vidovic Municipality have developed into the largest vegetable producer in the northern Republic of Croatia? Would a new elementary school be built in the Municipality of St. Elijah today, and in the Municipality of Martianec will be awarded a school, of course with the support of the County and the Resoring Ministry? Would 13 kindergartens be built in the area of Varazdin County today? Would OS High have her school gym so... there would be no status of the municipality? And there's a lot more, lots of questions to ask. So the easiest thing to do is to stop everything, build it a lot harder, so you need to have a vision, some idea solution, and turn it all into projects and cost-effectives, get licenses, call tenders, close the financial structure, build it all up and give it to our citizens for use. Now, that's a lot harder, cut it a lot easier. So when someone talks about reducing the number of counties, cities, and municipalities, they literally talk about populism. That sounds nice, and there's no solution and there's no offer. It would be much more appropriate to talk about the merger of the county, municipalities and cities. So what I'm curious about is how, for example, colleagues from the SDP, Most, the Homeland Movement, left-green coalitions would explain to the Međimurians that they should be connected to Varazdin? I would like to know which one of them would explain to the Međimurci, which is why they belong to the Varazdin or vice versa or to the Municipality of Cestica, Petrianec, Maruševec, Donja Voća Vinica or to the Koprivnica-Crizevina County of the Municipality of Gornja Rijeka and Kalnik St. Petra Orehovac, I wonder who from the ranks of our distinguished fellow MPs would stand before those local leaders, in front of the residents of these municipalities, and explain to them that this is very good for them? That's a lot harder. Perhaps during a future period we could also discuss certain powers. Do you, for example? waste management was good to transfer to the county or to remain in municipalities and cities? Protection and rescue, do you continue to remain on the rank of municipalities and cities or perhaps to take care of it run by the county? Anyway, there's a lot of, a lot of questions opening up there. It's been five minutes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22527	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. Here's a chance to respond. The first respected representative, Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22528	Your Honor and dear representative, Uncle. You come from Varazdin County, just as you have challenged me in some way that since I am in the Cestica Municipality, which is one of the larger ones within the Varazdin County, therefore the municipalities that will certainly not experience the merger or attachment of anyone, nor the opposition, I hope in the position of whoever is in the future. So, to return to the question that I ask you, do you really think that at the time of the economic conjuncture there was time with the Law on Areas of Special State Care to provide municipalities and cities with so many benefits that could have resulted and which have resulted in the progress of these same certain municipalities that I have stated and that later in times of glory it was impossible to continue at that pace. You've fixed it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22529	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22530	Dear fellow Members of the County Organisation of the SDP of the Varazdin County. So you yourself answered your question, so when I mentioned whether it would be good for the Cetica Municipality, the Petrian, the Maruševec, the Lower Fruit to attach to Vinica, you yourself said no, the Cestica is large enough, financially sustainable to remain a municipality. And now that any colleague here is asked from the middle that comes, are they ready to join their community or the city next door, everyone will say the same thing who you are, no. My municipality, the city can survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22531	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22532	Dear colleague. You can see exactly when someone comes to a pay phone who knows the problem of the functioning of municipalities and cities and those who here are talking and rolling all kinds of nonsense. So, you looked north at Croatia, it's probably the same in southern Croatia, I can speak arguments about the West. The cities and municipalities that were created in time from that group around the City of Rijeka, my own specifically had a budget of about 3 million kuna at the time. On Monday, we adopted a budget of 102 million kuna, and that is when we sum up all these municipalities at this point have a greater budget than the City of Rijeka. Is that enough evidence of the effectiveness of these small units of local self-government? Just as you said, from the construction of the infrastructure, from the launch of entrepreneurship zones, the opening of hundreds and thousands of jobs in that space, it's the strongest argument that these municipalities and cities deserve to stay in shape since '92. Because it's the foundation of this country's structure and it's so created on the idea and vision of President Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22533	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22534	Dear colleague. Well, every piece of work is measurable, including the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, and his citizens know best whether the mayor, the mayor and the mayor have justified their trust, whether or not there are results, whether roads are built and arranged, whether each of their residents has access to water, whether they are now involved in the construction of these agglomerations that we finance by EU funds, most of the work is measurable, is just a question of whether we want to see it, whether we want to measure it or assess it on a flat-rate basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22535	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22536	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr. Klaric, who is a view, and I also refer to the words that the opposition has a flatulence to quote nonsense, that he does not insult the opposition in such a way of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22537	Thank you very much. I don't think he even mentioned the opposition, as far as I know, but we all need to avoid that kind of communication. The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow uncle. You have well described what the results of our municipalities' work have been since '93. The central connection is certainly good. The functional integration of municipalities is good with regard to the management of kindergartens, municipal enterprises, water businesses and this makes sense, the abolition of counties only calls on those who were candidates for mayors and have not passed and have politically failed in this regard. I believe it's been since '93. From 500,000 kuna to 156 million kunas of municipalities that have reached in my county that level are certainly functional and certainly doing a good job as well as county. All of these are policies that have no basis, and the results can be easily seen since '93. So far how many plumbing, sewerage, roads, schools, kindergartens, halls were built with the help of the state, how much with the help of the county, and how much with the help of...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22539	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Uncle. Thank you, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22540	Dear colleague Djakic. You've noticed that, the abolition of counties, cities and municipalities are calling on just those people who were candidates for those posts, running for mayor, let's not get past that county now. You run for mayor, you don't pass the mayor, let's get rid of it all because I'm not mayor, mayor or mayor. So if voters appreciated the work of that candidate or recognized him as a quality person who could represent them and represent them, they would give him confidence, not lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22541	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22542	Thank you very much. When we speak of fellow Striker of termination, today we have attended discussions in, say, two clubs, one Homeland Movement, another Sovereignists. The mayor and deputy are from the same city and in two clubs, the mayor of the Homeland Movement is for this kind of structure and did not question whether the structure is good or not, but his deputy said the municipalities should be abolished. And when it comes from a man who is not a politician of general practice, such as counterpart Oreshkovic, who is also to end it all. You can't understand why these people stand up because if you're a deputy mayor and you have your own local self-government, you know how it works, so why are you defending someone else's right to do the same, no matter what kind of politics or political colors? That's what we witnessed today, that people from the same city speak differently, but at no point did they offer what I'm asking to offer to abolish their own local self-government as a program because obviously they can if they want to remain mayors or deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22543	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22544	That's exactly how my colleague Boric. I'd like to hear from any fellow MP who's willing to say that he's up for it and that he advocates that his community or city joins the neighbor, that's all. I suggest that my municipality, the city from which I come or the county joins the neighbor, nothing else, just that. Is it fair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22545	There is also a respected representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22546	You've said a lot, you've said a lot, but I think we always have to look at numbers. Next year's census, when we get the results, we'll get a population census from 2021. We'll take a census from 2001. And we'll see in 20 years how successful the municipalities were how many people were held back. We will see if 200,000 people live in the areas of the municipalities more or 200,000 people less. This whole thing is a speech, but the numbers aren't gonna lie to us. And you're also talking about abolishing the municipalities, first of all, if the municipalities are abolished doesn't mean that people won't have the right to municipal authority, they won't be at all... they'll be part of some larger municipality. Also submit that opposition, so today your minister was talking about rounding the municipalities, interesting. And eventually again logic, if there are 10 people in one municipality or 100 people, for example. I'm simplifying, if there are 100 people, the costs are fixed so that 10 times less per capita is spent. That's pure logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22547	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22548	Dear colleague. So I wasn't talking about the abolition of the counties, cities and municipalities I quoted individual officials, regardless of whether it was the rank of the former, present, future minister, MPs, mayor, mayor, the candidate chief who ran for office and didn't pass, so I quoted them as being pure demagogy and pulsism. Let them stand before the voters and the great ones, and I from that and that community or city advocate that my community and city join this and that, and that is fairest. Nobody cancels because these voters, voters, houses, churches, cemeteries, roads will stay, but in some other composition and then it is far more honest to say that here I am the first in Croatia to propose that my municipality or city joins the neighbouring and that would be fair, especially from fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22549	The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22550	Well, first of all, I don't think it's exactly there if you've singled out some big dispute between the opposition and the ruling bar so I don't see it, I've seen amongst your ranks some of those who advocate abolishing or reducing the number of municipalities, reducing the number of councilmen as well as this one. I think the proposal to amend and supplement the law actually also implies that council members are shrinking in some environments where they will actually be brought to the situation by some oligarchic power of mayor or mayor who will now be able to carry out their will even more easily. But quite specifically, if it was the intrinsicity of this law of democratisation, why did it not go to, say, the limitation of office to two years of mayor and mayor? Why didn't it go on reducing the percentages of people who could run a referendum from 20% to 10% why didn't it go on such proposals?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22551	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22552	So look, in my debate, I pointed out what all countys, cities, municipalities are dealing with, and I think it's far more important that it works, that our citizens benefit from it than in any way how many numbers, percentages can be launched either a referendum or something like that. If it's a burning question and then even if it's 20 and 30 percent in a smaller municipality of dissatisfied people will find enough people to write it because in smaller environments everyone knows everyone. But let's say I'm 1999. For the first time, I have never pointed out this, but I guess it should be pointed out sometimes, the youngest Tudjman mayor and in 2001 I launched the initiative that the southern three municipalities of the Varazdin County of Breznica, Breznik Hum and the High Functional Merger and did not work out, even functionally joining that we have a joint single administrative department.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22553	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22554	Your Honor, Uncle. We come from the same constituency, you've cited several examples here, one part of these examples was illogical, and the other one would be impossible. I mean, you know, if we couldn't connect local units from Međimurje and Zagorje, it wouldn't have worked, it wouldn't have worked, it wouldn't have worked. But this, another thing I wanted to say is not the goal of connecting individuals who are self - sufficient, who are self - sustaining and who can function without a problem. The point is to make an analysis and then to make it easier and better to live after that. There'll be less cost per capita, that's the first thing. The other thing is, it's not the goal of joining municipalities on the basis of someone saying, call out which community we're going to abolish, it's not the point, it's a detailed analysis of who can survive, who can't survive, who can't survive, then join together or make a referendum on whether to merge or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22555	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22556	Dear colleague. I think the most important thing is that what the county, the cities, the municipalities work for. Preschool education, primary school, high school, that our streets, squares are arranged, that health care is particularly primary and that citizens are satisfied and that is the most important and therefore there are municipalities, cities and counties. And this is whether or not anyone suggests how to connect, to his soul. But again I say it again, nice to say it publicly, me and that one, and that one, and that and that would be far more correct than to bring up flossules of too many municipalities, cities and counties, and that sounds nice to the voters, but it's no use. There should be an initiative and a concrete proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22557	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miroslav Skora.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP. So, I know your modus operandi, you've agreed to go ahead of the promotion for the next local elections, it's your legitimate right. The result of this structure is at least 400,000 people less in Croatia, but I would like to return first of all to the scale of things. So today we're discussing amendments to three laws that have absolutely nothing to do with what you're talking about. What you're talking about is the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, so I'm asking you nicely to get back on the subject and talk about what these laws are talking about because what you're talking about really doesn't matter or read these three laws again, so it'll be a little clearer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22559	Thank you very much. I must say right away, unfortunately, she's already gone in one direction significantly before the debate is completely different than these three laws. Here you are, the answer to the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22560	Dear Representative Škoro, president of the Homeland Movement. Two weeks ago, you set up a county organization of the Homeland Movement for the Varazdin County, and at the beginning, you've been playing everything, so you can't set up a county organization for the Varazdin County in Međimurje. It's a total mistake, it's up there unauthorized, you know, and you can't go to Varazdin for the Međimurje, it doesn't go up. So this is now a friendly advice, so in the future when something is formed, it must be in the area of the Varazdin County not through Drava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22561	Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22562	Dear fellow Vice President, at the cost of the reminder... you were the European and world champion of the number of infected and it was forbidden for every gathering, and I, unlike you, do not share Croatia, I love both Varazdinska and Međimurska and Istria and every other county, this is the country in which 4 million inhabitants live, unlike New York, where 8 live have so many people arrested that it is not normal, and you created them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22563	Of course I have to give you a warning like you know about it. The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22564	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. You've said a number of good reasons why you're against abolishing the municipalities. Here, first of all, it is important to highlight the role of people who are responsible and how well they manage state money to serve the citizens. It also seems to me that opposers of the abolition are those who are in favour of abolishing the municipalities, those who go to elections, and often lose those elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22565	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22566	Dear colleague Škoro. It is true that by that day we were the worst, the second day was the worst of Međimurje. ... I didn't have a chance anymore, so now I'm using this, so the second answer was the worst of Međimurje. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague, if there were more models, one of the majors were volunteers, one large number of deputies were volunteers for zero kunas. In certain municipal councils, council members gave up their fees, and I say among other things when I was head of the two mandates, the council president then gave up all fees. So every year in the budget was planned, the planned expenditure for that purpose, we never spent one lip or directed for some of our own exhibition. So these were budget funds, there are more models of ways but each of them on his soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22567	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22568	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. I am very interested in you, and I am thinking very carefully about whether there is any parliamentary representative who has joined his municipality with someone else, especially since around my municipality are the Municipality of Petrianec, Cestica Municipality, the Maruševec Municipality, who have an excellent standard in everything, which have beautiful schools and halls, which have well-organised roads. Some of them have postal numbers, and my community doesn't have it, but I'd rather fight for my community that and then have it all and make it better in my community.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22569	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22570	Dear colleague. Here is my colleague and colleague, the esteemed representative Štromar comes from the Municipality of Vinica, HDZ is there in power of mandates and mandates and he himself advocates that Vinica remains the municipality will continue to be led by HDZ i.e. Chief Kostanjevec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22571	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MP Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22572	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. When a frog stays in the swamp for a long time, he gets used to the smell of that swamp. I find your game amazing. Great Britain has 13 times as many inhabitants as the Republic of Croatia, and there are fewer municipalities, ah, those stupid British, ah, those stupid English. 30 years in this country, no one's done a real study, a study. We are not on the payroll, so we will not come to the cry, and choose which of you you will remove from the municipality, and choose which you will remove. Let's be serious politicians, there's no real study, and then not that it's not done, and we're talking about today which, we're not talking about abolishing, we're talking about a study of purpose, we're talking about that in many municipalities, we're talking about more than 50% of the cost, you know why they spend? For wages, that's the point. Is that a point?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22573	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22574	Dear colleague. So there's a bridge to make a suggestion, a solution. And the Bridge is that one serious option that has what, how many mayors? Zero mayor? Zero. Chief? Zero. And that's that serious option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22575	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22576	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is generally known that our local self-government is too large and too expensive given the number of inhabitants the Republic of Croatia has and generally accepted the fact that it is a great source of corruption. One of the amendments that will result from this law is related to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme in the part where this transparency of public finances and the obligation of all units of local and regional self-government or internet publication of spent public money in a way that is easily accessible to all because citizens will then be able to assess and control how their money is spent, they will not care whether their mayor is on the left or right, whether it is darkening that money. I expect that after the end of this covid crisis and further reform of local self-government, as well as a reduction of the costs of state and local self-government. This law will reduce the number of members of the representative body by cca 10%, and will also lead to rationalisation and limit the maximum amount of compensation for members of the representative bodies based on these changes are expected to be saved from cca 100 million kuna and this is positive. However, I must stress what I have actually been disappointed to expect in this part of the law that the legislator has missed the opportunity in this amendment of the law to introduce legal amendments that prescribe a ban on running for municipal mayors and mayors and mayors and deputy mayors and mayors who are under trial, to whom the Criminal Court has confirmed the prosecution's indictment. After 30 years of an affair of millions of indictments and guarantees to get out of prison, we must not alter the Law on Local Elections exclusively to nomotechnical alignment with changes in the system of local and regional self-government. Is there a person who can publicly justify the candidateing of persons accused of so-called. Corrupt criminal acts? And it is time to put an end to this once and for all in Croatia just before the next local elections. I also expected it in this law to enter. Citizens of us now, not tomorrow expect to fight these key social problems at all levels and without exception. The key problem of our society is nepotism, corruption and weak institutions that allow those who are being prosecuted or convicted of serious fraud to be active in public life and politics. We ourselves have witnessed that many judgments by non-legislative courts do not prevent individual citizens from running. We are also witnessing daily procedures for many years, and these individual mayors and mayors are still members of public life. The only objection in this law that was not introduced and that I expected that part to be regulated. I expect us to go to that right when this covid crisis is over and go into serious reconstruction and thus local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22577	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. He's the first respected Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22578	Thank you. A fellow Klasic. You've highlighted your savings in your debate, we're in a major epidemic of the coronary virus, the consequences are already visible and they're terrible and, of course, every kuna is important, every kuna of savings is important, and now these legal proposals we don't end don't combine municipalities and cities, and yet we come to these 100, 150 million kuna savings. Is it not, then, that amount itself, and that solution, that it may be well supported? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22579	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22580	Thank you. It's all right, though. Any savings in the budget and local self-government and budget of the Republic of Croatia seem to be welcome in this crisis time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22581	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22582	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, saving out 100 million kuna, it's throwing sand into the eyes of the citizens. With one purchase that I see here it's publicly published in America, and that's for... familiar with this colleague Klasic knows what I'm talking about, the value of this purchase is $757 million, so 5 billion kuna we're going to throw away on one side, and here we're going to save 100 million kuna to what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To present the HDZ around as it reduces local self-government, to make it look like something's going on, that the government is saving our money. 100 million kunas as much as it sounds to an ordinary citizen many and impressively, it's a drop in the sea of problems that we don't solve, but we throw sand into people's eyes. On the other hand, we spend money on hand and hat, and here I don't know about some cosmetic reduction of representative bodies and deputies in local self-government units creating some kind of savings that are compared to how much we spend almost and negligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22583	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22584	Here's what we'll probably have on the Defence Committee, and I agree with you that we share the same opinion here about supply and military equipment and some expenditure. As for this, I welcome every savings in the Republic of Croatia and I will look only at the City of Zagreb how inefficient that part of the local self-government where we have 218 local committees, I will remind you that most of these local committees in the City of Zagreb have far more inhabitants than half of the municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. In the City of Zagreb, local committees have cca from 5 to 11,000 inhabitants, these local committees are unfortunately at the annual level of the City of Zagreb almost 200 million kunas, which is an enormous amount, and in the end it turns out that the mayor, not some in the local self-government, finally decides. In my opinion, and this surplus is about where we should save at local level in the City of Zagreb there is no need for 218 local committees or 17 urban districts, it should be far less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22585	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Renate Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22586	Good afternoon. My colleague, so I can agree with you that it is necessary to regulate these candidates who are legally convicted, should definitely have this catalogue and in this proposal I will not call it a cosmetically modified law but, literally, aesthetic surgery has been removed small surpluses, extras. But tell me, how is it that, or what do you think, the time has come for us to now put two terms of office for mayors and mayors and mayors and mayors into one world level, not at this level where we are now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22587	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22588	However, here I would support the first such proposal because it is well known in Croatia that after more than two terms all mayors, the mayors are networked and unfortunately I do not know if it is good for Croatia. I see from practical policy that it does not lead to good and would support that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22589	The next replica is respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22590	... And that's how he justified the HDZ coalition. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] What does the bill say? Have you even read it? What he promised with the President of the Parliament doesn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22591	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22592	Thank you very much. ...the speakers speak at the same time....the law and what is inside is big steps for our country. After this, the citizens will be able to assess the spending of everyone... I see that you have supported it down there and I think that this is a good direction for all mayors and mayors in the Republic of Croatia, is as I told the citizens then it will no longer matter whether the mayor is left or right or any other option but it will matter how they spend their money. And from this, it will be crystallized by all the marifets that the Mayor of the City of Zagreb likes to say. I would also suggest within the legal framework that the budgets appear at the third level from which each expenditure of the kuna is seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22593	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark Taritate, who will still address us... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22594	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. I'm a little early in fear of wasting my time. Kolega Klasić, you have been a member of the City of Zagreb for a long time, in this set of three laws that are changing and supplementing one of these laws is the law relating to the City of Zagreb, where the number of representatives in the City Assembly is reduced from 51 to 47. I'm interested in your experience, your position on whether this reduction for four MPs, so I'm talking 51 to 47, and the city councils and local committees will still remain as they are, whether it will contribute to democratisation, whether it will contribute to the effectiveness of the City of Zagreb, the City Assembly, we will give this solution really a step forward, or if it's just one cosmetics or one form, so I'm interested in your position in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22595	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22596	Thank you very much for asking. Dear MPs. I think that even the reduction from 51 to 47% although every reduction is good is not good in the City of Zagreb is the citizens of the City of Zagreb I will remind you that it is the County Assembly, it seems to me that the citizens of the City of Zagreb are sub-represented in the exercise of their rights to other citizens of the Republic of Zagreb is the County Assembly and the City Assembly, while I can say Split, the coastal-goran region where the City of Split has the City Council and their citizens are represented and in the County Assembly. What is problematic in the City of Zagreb is what I said and where it should be done, it is a reduced councilman on local committees and in urban districts. I think the institution has been pre-named that too many people in there participate, and without any authority. Unfortunately, that's the consequence and the lex sheriff so-called. The law and I think it is a place where we should work seriously in the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22597	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22598	Good afternoon, everyone. We can say without exaggeration that today is the most often spoken sentence, these are cosmetic changes. But these are very popular changes, not populist ones, but there's a serious difference between good and bad pulsism, and there's a good one that's progressive. The promoter is the majority, and the opposition agrees in fact almost everything this amendment and supplement proposal shows and a good part of the ruling and opposition juggles with more or less popular opportunistic terms and understanding of local administrations and self-government as places of art, clientelism, corruption, and in doing so more or less agree, and the solution is seen in reducing the number of councilors, mayors, councilors in short with cuts that are reportedly changing everything. At the same time, it's a lot of contradictions, and I hear in the same breath from some that we've driven our people out of the country and that the numbers of employees in cities and municipalities have grown, that they're inflated, that they need to be reduced. We heard the state with no counters, marks and papers as said by the opposition Predrag Štromar, and we heard similar assessments from the position, so here is Darko Klasic or Dario Hrebak, who as mayor, reminds us, cut the costs in Bjelovar, so he denied social assistance to people who did not want to participate in public works, so he conditioned the people on the edge of the existence by participating in physical works and was also boasting that he had removed many of them from the town's coat of arms. A nice vision of the future, cancellations and cuts of social benefits. Not a word about the systemic and structural causes of clientelism and corruption, about poverty and about the socioeconomic framework which is the first reason and the cause of corruption which is very much linked to the material conditions of life, deprivation and poverty... and the gap between job offers and real needs. Such problems can only be opposed by changing the skeletal structure, but in particular by these amendments and by supplementing the law and democratisation of decision-making at local levels, by increasing participation as many people as possible who decide their representative bodies after the vote and live. What really could have changed these amendments to the law in that direction? A democratic framework for action guaranteeing the eradication of corruption and clientelism could certainly be improved. It's too bad it hasn't changed, for instance. 48th, it is unacceptable from the point of view of democracy that municipal chiefs, mayors name and resolve representatives of local or regional (regional) self-government in public institutions, the assembly of municipal enterprises, tourist communities, kindergartens, even schools, companies and other legal entities, so that they can name themselves in the congregations of companies owned by local units. That's why we have clienteleism even in the appointment of kindergarten directors and not once. It is contrary to the EU Charter, which stresses that local self-government exercise its right through councils or congregations, and that they may have executive bodies over them. Thus, councils and congregations, or representative bodies, are as primary as workers in public administration bodies, not the executive body of the mayor and the mayor. This is why local self-government is not set up in the spirit of the EU Charter of Local Self-Government that we have ratified, and art. 3. The EU Charter of Local Self-Government says: "Under local self-government, the right and the possibility of local units to regulate and manage under certain laws with their own responsibility and in the interests of the local population is assumed." Furthermore, the problems with this amendment and the addition of the laws to which I have tabled and the amendments are as follows, Art. 9 the rights of members of the representative bodies are governed by it and the right of a representative body to seek an agreement with the employer for a justified absence of work, in accordance with the agreement with the employer. This opens the possibility of the council's employer's influence on the council's decision, no employer has been elected. So will the waiter at the bar get his boss's consent to stay out of work because he has to attend a session of the city hall? This makes it virtually visible what is self-evident to politics, and this House confirms that not all layers of society, all classes, can be dealt with. Politics is no longer for workers, especially workers in the private sector. The problem is, let's say, Art. 12, which could and should have been limited, as some said, the number of mandates that the mayors, mayors and mayors could carry out no more than two mandates. If it wanted to increase parcity, then it could be done by lowering the threshold from 20 to 10% of voters needed to propose a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22599	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Hrebaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22600	Respected and respected parliamentary representative Peovic. I'd expect that from a party that's called working to promote a cult of work, not a cult of nerado. We have sent to Bjelovar what you call me to call 200 calls that according to the law of people who receive minimum social security compensation come and do four hours of work in return and compensation that has the right under the law. Of the 200 people we invited came from the four, I told the secretary to call me those four at my office, they came to my office. The man told me openly, Mayor, I'll do it because I'm an honorable and responsible man, but honestly, Mayor, why would I go to work when my wife and I sit at home and receive 6,000 kuna? So let's focus on working with one part of your exposure I agree in terms of work, but let's focus on creating a cult of work, not a cult of nerado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22601	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22602	And the first social compensation is certainly not 5 to 6,000 kuna. Second, social compensation is not a fee that is received by proving it by its morality or by its curiosity. Social compensation is a fee that is granted and gives to people who are in social problems who have no other income and neither you nor anyone else can be a moral arbiter who can get out of those 200 people and who can't get social benefits. It's a shame you're working there in Bjelovar. I really hope that no such thing will happen in Croatia and that we will not fall under the influence of such proposals where people are denied the basic conditions of life, that we understand, means basic human needs because they did not comply with your standards of morality and your criteria for obtaining social compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22603	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Hrebak. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22604	Your Honor. The parliamentary representative hurt Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure, disdaining me that it was a shame to do so. I do not do what I want to do but what is imposed in the Social Care Act, which tells you that people who have received a minimum guaranteed social compensation can be called upon and you have to invite them to come and do their social community.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22605	Thank you very much. I suggest we all cut our tones a little bit and continue to discuss it constructively. The next replica is respected representatives of Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22606	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs. You're wrong about social welfare users, social guaranteed minimum compensation. Our citizens get if they have a permanent prevention and inability to work they and their families and depend on the care and help of countries from different source fees, but those who have temporary prevention because they have no adequate job or no job at all, but are able to work. And according to the Social Welfare Act, they have an obligation to make minimum compensation, even as much as one part of the profits are recognised to them, not less guaranteed minimum compensation as an incentive to enter the world of work. And the way you interpret really suits those who, then, really have to live on welfare, put it in the category of those who abuse it. So you don't know that regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22607	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22608	Mrs. Murganic, this is about me, to a great extent, and because of your party and your party's actions, living in a country that has one of the lowest jobs in Europe, the lowest wages in Europe, the preeminent labour contracts, and you are preparing draft laws to amend and supplement the law, you are the ones responsible for the state of affairs and you believe that moral responsibility and individual guilt are the people who receive social compensation, and they must prove it themselves and confirm the reasons for obtaining social compensation. Well, people don't get social benefits because they're lazy and because they don't want to work in public works, and the mayor has a right to do something like that anywhere, but people aren't employed because he doesn't have jobs. And it should be clear to you first that it is even an argument in your favor in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22609	Okay, but I'd like to ask that we now focus on the amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government because we've now started even more, we've first started to cross the state and work on new counties or more or less, municipalities, cities we've ended, snuck out, joined together, separated, etc., now we've thrown ourselves on social support. Let's go back to the subject, please. Therefore, the esteemed representative, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22610	Thank you very much, colleague Reiner. Dear colleague Peovic. Here's your debate marked the opening part where you said that cities and municipalities were essentially a litter of ears, clientelism. You didn't say that? [[Intruder Peović: I'm not that.]] I think it is, read a little bit after the phonogram and you'll see. [[/Intruder Peović: No, no.]] And now, in the meantime, there is a great war going on in the green-left bloc and coalition, who will be the first candidate to enter this nest of arrests both in Zagreb and Rijeka, you, on the one hand, colleague Tomaševic, on the other hand, and you want to get into that litter, imagine that, in order to break that network of clientelism, ears, etc. When you enter as an individual, as mayor in such a big city into that network with those attitudes, I'd like to see how long it will take, given your perception of that space, the people who work there and... maybe to be in the council have one or two council members. I'm very interested in how it's going to work and how long it's going to last. You know how much? Zero, since it won't happen let it stay in the sphere of science fiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22611	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22612	Thank you for your concern. She's not justified at all. What I can tell you is that you didn't understand what I said. So, I've just replicated this agreement that exists between you and the opposition, that it's only clienteleism as some moral corruption of people who are willing to so agree to some jobs that have been offered to them through a relationship. I was just talking about social depression and job shortages, which is why we have a really high and perception of corruption among other things. So the argument you could have used for your own good to say so, you didn't even realize what I was saying. So what I was going to say is that corruption is something that we have to study as systemic and material deprivation of the majority, and not that we slap ourselves like that, so it was a good example of our colleagues, that we slap ourselves with those orientations and about some of the ratings that people just don't want to work. People would work, and they have nowhere to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22613	Thank you very much. Now the next line will be given to us by a respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22614	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Peovic. So maybe we should get back to the subject. So we have here three amendments to the laws that go six months before the local elections and what these amendments to the law really is I can't see that something is a fundamental step, I can't even see that it's a fundamental step in terms of democracy, but I can see that there are changes to the law to talk about something. And in the debate, there's a lot more talk about everything than what's in these laws. These laws don't make any improvements, these laws don't bring any other issues. As I have already said in the replica of Mr Klasic in the City of Zagreb in the City Assembly, where you were also represented by the number from 51 decreases to 47, which progress will this make, what will improve the work of the City Assembly? So, when we make some laws to those laws, we should... step forward, not just do a play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22615	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22616	Absolutely, therefore, what will happen by reducing the number of councilors will certainly not be good for democracy, especially in the smaller environments. How many councilmen are there going to be on Solta? So what won't be an even greater advantage and a structural possibility for some local sheriffs to rule until the end. So if we were to go towards and we were to go towards democratisation of the decision which, in addition to that, and the promise that there would be no corruption, clientelism, then we should certainly have maintained the number of councilors who are the pledge of democracy, and indeed democratisation the decision-making process. And here is what I have cited as the possibility of reducing the number of people required to call a referendum, to reduce, limit two years of mayor or mayor's mandate, certainly not a democratic practice to ask the employer to approve the worker to go to the city's assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22617	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22618	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. The pompous announced reform of local self-government has come down to an amendment to the law that will save about 38 million kuna, despite your claim that it will be around 100 million and it is not disputed. It's good to save as much as it saves, but it's bad when you spend more money to prepare for the law to change than it does to change that law. What am I talking about? How many people have been working on amendments to this law, how many recommendations of the Ministry of Administration and Justice, how many references of the Ministry of Finance, how long have they been engaged in the amendments to this law, how many meetings have been made, how many coffees have been drunk, how many travel expenses paid, how many consulting services have been paid, how many papers have been spent, and how much savings have been about 38 million kuna? And how does Minister Malenica justify it? By saying that this is the first phase of reform. Okay. How many of those phases are there? How long are you going to last? When are we going to be able to say that this is really a comprehensive reform of local self-government? Not a word of it. The law neither foresees a functional reconstruction of the unit of local self-government or binding anti-corruption mechanisms by introducing transparency of public money costs. Minister Malenica also persistently mentions the concept of openness with the notion of transparency. There's no minister, but I'd like to ask him a question. And he is aware that openness and transparency are not the same, they are completely two different models of public money spending. Of these two models, the Minister's transparency model must not be introduced and I understand it. In fact, I feel sorry for him because he can't do what he knows is right. He explained and said what he didn't believe in himself, but he has to, okay. On page 37 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 23.7 programme, the Government will commit all local and regional units to the public and internet publication of spent public money by amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. In the proposed amendments to this law, the word transparency is not mentioned for a single time, except in a five-time explanation. Five times and only to mention it. And it's no big deal, it's something that Minister Malenica announced to us and himself in his public statements when he explained how he intended to achieve the transparency of spending public money. That real true transparency wouldn't be alone said it because being can't be. There is no control over the spending of public money, except in four out of the 555 units of local self-government, and these units of local self-government to this kind of real transparency voluntarily, no one has made them decide on their own. What is interesting, none of the four local self-government units are from the minister's political option. Minister Malenica, of course, left because he didn't answer my question. Why didn't he answer? Because the question didn't answer him. He tried his doctoring, and it didn't work. This proposal to amend the law is exactly that, amending the law and nothing else, no reform, no phase of reform. And I would never want to hear such formulas again when some kind of reform, which is not because it's simply colleagues and colleagues, not insulting just my or your intelligence, is an insult to the intelligence of Croatian citizens. Let's not do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22619	We have more replicas, the first respected representative Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22620	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's a quick question for MP Ahmetovic. These days, and here's the occasion because the Law on Local Administration is often mentioned by the local sheriff and law lex sheriff. You have been a long official at local level since 2013. So how do you feel when you get the label that you're a local sheriff or a sheriff I don't know how to say it or possibly catch it or do you think that's only true for HDZ people?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22621	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22622	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. Well, I have to admit, I've never received a local sheriff's label, never been called directly or indirectly by anyone local sheriff, I guess that's my luck. But if anyone I am known to be that those mayors and mayors who knowingly, responsibly and honestly carry out their duties, whatever political options come as the mayors and mayors of the island of Krk, whom I know very well and whose work I know well, and some of them encourage even from your political option, I have no intention of calling local sheriffs and I like to point out that they are consciously and responsibly doing their duty. I don't have a problem with that, just as I don't have a problem calling each individual name and last name, regardless of the HDZ, SDP or any other official who embezzles public money, and we can count.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22623	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22624	Dear MP Ahmetovic. You know I appreciate you for, like me and two other colleagues, introducing full transparency at a local level. However, the Constitution does not prescribe penalties as well as the Law on Local Self-Government cannot stipulate how transparency will be used if this falls within the scope of the Budget Law it clearly states in this law. The second thing, the Budget Act, I already spoke to Minister Maric, will be implemented at the beginning of the year because he also has to change and he will stand there, here I am exclusively saying 100,000 kuna fines for every local sheriff who does not want to comply with the provisions of the law, 100,000 kuna. That's where the fines are prescribed, you don't have any punishment in this law because it's simply not a law, conditionalally speaking, laymanically speaking for punishment, it's a law that gives some kind of framework. I'd love to, I know you won't support it because you're just out of opposition, but believe me, this is a big step for all of us. On the other hand, what's important to me is to point out, don't just because it's an HSLS initiative... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22625	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22626	Who about what Dario Hrebak about the openness of the budget. Dear Representative, you are the one by whose model I am and I do not intend to hide it introduce transparency, the true transparency of the budget in the Municipality of Omisalj and I introduce it into the municipal enterprise and into TZ and I will not stop, but don't talk about the openness of the budget is what the HDZ government is proposing, what Minister Malenica publicly said is openness and you yourself criticized that openness, look at the newspaper's articles. I didn't say a word about punishments, but I guess you should have taken the time to replicate something after all. However, what I would ask you is your statement, the first day I become a representative I will present a legal proposal on transparency in the procedure. I've been waiting, but since day one, that law hasn't been in the process. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22627	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22628	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, this law is essentially a series of bad changes introduced by Lovro Kuščević, of course, where Milan Bandic and the harvester had to bring so-called. Lex Sheriff, simply HDZ had to adapt, and here lead to even worse combinations where in one article they say that cities and municipalities, the mayors of the municipalities below 35,000 will have no deputies, but that in the event of their inability to perform their duties, they will be replaced by someone the representative body of the council chooses. So what is it? in the Council may be a member. 19. read the amendment, Art. 19. so the representative body can be quite different from the political option chosen directly by the mayor so that you have now made one bullet law that absolutely has nothing to do with reform except political play that will bring down... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22629	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22630	Thank you very much. Your Honor. As I said in my debate, this law neither foresees a functional discharge of the unit system of local self-government or the introduction of anti-corruption mechanisms. So that's why you think only these cosmetic changes have been made? In order to be able to say that we have implemented a reform of local self-government for which this government has neither the will nor the intention to do so. What is crucial is that the mayors, mayors, especially the mayors of the municipalities where corruption is actually the most manifested. Why? Because there's a lot of them from the HDZ ranks. And we know what they're doing, Požega, Županja, Škabrnja, Seget, Benkovac, Glinac, Ceminac, Island of Creminac, is a newspaper of embezzlement of public money fraud due to cuisine, perfume and such trinkets as are done by these local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22631	The next replica is the respected representative and vice president of this House Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22632	Thank you very much. ... Vice President and I are here to thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22633	Please don't come from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22634	...thank you very much. So, dear fellow Ahemtovic, you were talking about amounts so that we can get close to people, you were saying 38 million kuna per year, say legislators and legislators of the law 100 million, let's say it's net and gross, 500,000 kunas will be saved in the City of Zagreb, so these 100 million kunas do not go to 0.025% of the budget or GDP of the Republic, and this is somewhere in the third decimal of the budget. So maybe just to get closer to the citizens is about three to three and a half trunks of money, and when it comes to your approach, and when it comes to the applicant's access means somewhere between 8 and 10 trunks of money that you can find in the garage. Here's how much it's gonna save a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22635	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22636	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I'm sorry I can't answer your comment. This wasn't a question, and all because I'm not competent to talk about trunks and trunks when talking about riots or packages of money that maybe some other representative here could talk about better. I hope you appreciate my apology for not being able to answer you properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22637	The next replica is the respected representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22638	Dear colleague Ahmetovic. In fact, the mother of all the laws for regional and local administration and self-government is this law, we all know that those of us who act as executive authority whether in local or regional administration and self-government. The truth is, this law could have been much more complete and could have been really reformal, but it's not, and that's where we agree. I'd like to ask you something else, so... through the form of arable acquisitions and not to list as examples of the same part you mentioned them in mind... /The speakers speak at the same time./... I mean the structure in terms of synergy of the axle of the government primarily in relation to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] listed by a limitation of the term of office of the Executive Authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand, bad video connection.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22639	I'm afraid, I don't know how they'll respond to respected MPs, and I haven't been able to catch up. I mean, every time there's been so much ton, maybe we should see if there's anything that can be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22640	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22641	We hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22642	And can I say it again? Okay. [[You're right, of course, and we haven't heard.]] Well, here's my dear colleague Ahmetovic, a lovely greeting again. You as well as I as the head of the executive unit of local administration and self-government know very well... that the mother of all laws for the regional local administration and self-government of this law and it is true, we agree, could be much more complete, could be really reformal but not. ... Did you through the bagatile acquisitions,... some examples you mentioned, did through the possibilities of nepotism in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] regional and local levels, whether you consider it necessary or at least a better solution to prevent it from being restricted by the Executive Authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22643	Okay, although it's been lost occasionally, but I think you've figured this out, at least I have. There's an esteemed representative, Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22644	Thank you very much. Your Honor. If I understood the question correctly, I would answer you in this way, it's not about limiting the mandate, it's about limiting the possibility of corrupting actions. So, if you were to introduce yourself and have a real desire and will to introduce the actual transparency of the budget, that every resident can at any moment control who bought what, which is why he bought, from which budget items he spent what he bought, or for what he bought, when that invoice was paid, etc. then they would not talk about corrupt actions and Croatia would not be with 47 points at 63rd place 2019, or even three places lower than it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22645	Thank you very much. The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22646	Thank you very much. My colleague Ahmetovic, I am interested in one other thing, so you were talking about the aspects of this reform which is not, therefore, going to reduce the number of deputies, mayors, the number of councilors or councilors, but whether this means the same reform as HDZ introduced so-called. The professionalization of the public administration, or will the assistant ministers become professional rather than political? Does this mean that the deputies will only become headmasters, means that council members will become employees of municipal enterprises, etc. Because if it's a reform, then there's no sign of that reform at all. And finally, what my colleague Hrebak was saying about penalties for those who do not want to implement the provisions of this law regarding the transparency of the budget, what I'm interested in is who will pay those penalties? Will they be paid by local self-government units or will the mayors or mayors pay them in person? Because if they pay local self-government units, believe me, we're going to see a lot of those fines that are going to be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22647	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22648	Thank you very much. In view of this part of the issue in which you are problemling the reduction of the number of deputies and the possibility of hiring these deputies, not some other position as it was done in the so-called so-called ‘. reforms of ministries or jobs in the ministry I really don't know the answer to that question, but according to it, history is a teacher of life so we'll probably have to wait to tell history is repeated. However, what you have said about penalties is a very bad practice, otherwise in cases where legal provisions are violated, and all due to the mistreatment of the head of that unit of local self-government punish both local municipalities and the head of the local self-government unit, it is very likely that, even in this case, if the penalties are introduced, this particular example is applied and this time, which is very, very bad for the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22649	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22650	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Mr. Assistant or Secretary of State, I don't know. Here, I'll speak a few words to this law. There's a lot of effort here to show that this law doesn't bring anything, and then when it's said, it's just a drill about how someone's very transparent, very honest and very important, and others aren't. Here when we look at the article. 68.a. the municipality, city and county are said to be required to publicly publish information on budget spending on their websites, in a way that information is easily available and searched. When we enter and enter into the meaning of transparency as a concept, the source is Latin transparens, meaning transparency, and couples show what it means to be visible or accessible to the public. So he gave something visible and clearly transparent, or it's open, it's quite irrelevant how it's interpreted, it's important that this information comes in and that it shows as such what's evident from the pre-conditions to be there for everyone publicly available. When I talk about this law then I will talk about whether my county that has over 7,000km2 of land over 3,600km2 and has a little more than 170,000 inhabitants, there are 6 cities, 28 municipalities and when we talk about whether it's too many municipalities and too many cities then I say it's not because when you look at the number of inhabitants per km square, it's only 46 inhabitants per kilometer square km in relation to the Republic of Croatia that has 75.7. So, only 4% of the population of the total number in the Republic of Croatia lives in my county. Now when we bring it down to a city that has 37 local committees and has a surface of about 190 km2 and has 7 islands, then we can say that such a county and such a city is very demanding and is monitored and organised in a way that is very uniform and quality. When compared to some cities such as Benkovac, Obrovac which have a large area and have a much smaller population that it is the same, here for Obrovac there are only 4300, Benkovac about 11000 and one and the other is about 500 km2. So, in such areas, whether it is necessary to eliminate what they say should be abolished by cities and municipalities, then I find it in no way good because in this way these cities and municipalities were able to create preconditions in order to return some of the inhabitants and to launch certain development projects. Therefore, when we return to the measure of this law, then it is necessary to defend everyone from their position whether or not it is necessary for these municipalities and cities to actually exist as they now exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22651	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Hrebaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22652	Dear MPs, Mrs. Peric, I will agree there with my colleague Ahmetovic is not the same openness and transparency, you know. The city of Zagreb is a transparent city according to the grades of certain institutions, and on the other hand ask the citizens what they think Zagreb is a transparent city. But ask the citizens throughout the public what they think it is all Sunday, whether the municipality of Omisalj, whether the town of Bjelovar is transparent you will see what kind of answer you will get. Here today alone, I reported to Mrs. Oreshkovic today because she herself admitted that she was a member of two parties of one who is passive, fictitious, the other who is active. She is a member of the party "With a name and a last name" which is fictitious and has now become a "Smart Centre" but is not untransparent to take money from several hundred thousand kunas that will come to a fictitious party to probably transfer them. Well, you see, that's intransparency. It's not just intransparency for local self-government, it's transparency that we do every day, and it's not something politicians should do, especially those who call for morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22653	Dear representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22654	Thank you very much. Our criteria as set out in this transparency shown in the media were actually set up by the Institute of Public Finance, where the publication of the budget and the implementation of the budget, the decision to implement then all the changes that took place during the year are actually about transparency criteria and these are actually criteria implemented by the Institute of Public Finance. So what this, in this way, wants to show if it is, I say, is embedded in this article that then this availability of all the transactions that happen in the jury account that it is searchable. Here's actually the way it can then be installed through the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22655	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Sanader and the vice president of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22656	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have elaborated here on the justification of some of the municipalities in your county, but we have examples of some of the representatives who are the main awakenings when any institution is abolished about their city or municipality, and they would have abolished all the institutions or municipalities, i.e. all the municipalities and counties, I suppose, would then be the main fighters in order to be against the abolition of their municipality. How do you interpret that concept?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22657	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22658	Well, here's a fellow Uncle talked about it before, so let's each say if it's for this one or that option. Is it for it to be abolished and let it point to the municipality or county or city should actually be abolished and then let's see what kind of commitment it is. We believe that this way that the entire administration in the Republic of Croatia is established is only right that in this way all cities, municipalities and counties can be evenly developed, and that through the measures being taken, through these tax reforms, so that they can actually get self-sustainable and able to apply to European funds and thus develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22659	The violation of the Rules of Procedure seems to have raised my esteemed representative, Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you know as well as I do that the Rules of Procedure in Article 382 have been injured. So I would really ask that we stick to the topic – the territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia is not the topic we are discussing today, and I guess that should finally explain it to people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22661	I agree with you on this, but unfortunately they have imposed many of these topics, and it has obviously become an issue that I do not know why and I do not know from whose interests the subject is, although it is not at all, but as I have prayed, we return to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government because it is the subject of today's debate. I agree with you, as I said before, we've done a lot of things, we've ended the country, the county, the municipalities, the cities, we've combined, we've separated them, we've talked about social aid, we've talked about homeless people, we've talked about everything and we've talked about everything, except this one, except for the subject. We've talked about the subject, but we've talked about other things. So let's go back to the subject. And the subject will now be discussed by the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22662	Here, thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are listening and we have on the table a package of laws concerning the optimization of local and regional (regional) self-government systems as well as a proposal to reduce the number of local officials and rationalise the performance of jobs in municipalities, cities and counties. I think these are suggestions that are commendable and should be supported. Namely, this proposal reduces the number of local officials by 618. Not only will the system be rationalised in a way that will release the funds that were related to the receipts of these officials, but everything that goes means not only personal income, contributions, but also vehicle cards and all that these deputies have. Furthermore, the number of members in representative bodies is reduced by about 10%, and the maximum amount of compensation is limited, depending on the number of residents in the municipality, the city, or the county. However, I would also like to remind that this is a continuation of optimisation, a reduction of the number of officials, and a rationalisation already initiated by the government. In fact, we now have 16 ministries, recently we had 20. Then, as of January 1st this year, government affairs have been transferred to the county and almost 98%, however, and this transfer has freed us and we have fewer employees. Here in our Sibenik-Knin County, the county has taken over 73 employees and almost 24%, meaning 23 have retired in the meantime. When we went back a little bit in 2018, we had a reduced number of agencies, institutions, funds, companies, institutes, foundations and other legal entities with public authority. Then we're 54 bodies that have been abolished, which are connected to the ministry. There are those who had 600 employees, and there were only two employees. There has been a lot of talk about how in smaller municipalities there is almost only funds for the salaries of the commissioner and his deputy. Another employee who is most often there, as they can say, party arrest, however, I would remind him that the law does not allow, but he says that the mass of funds for salaries employed in cities, municipalities and counties must not amount to more than 20% of the income of the units achieved in the previous year, knowing that no donations are made to that amount, no EU funds intended strictly for the implementation of the projects continue to enter. However, there are also articles of law and problems that would be good to correct, at least on the occasion of amendments. Namely, when it comes to the mayor, the mayor who doesn't have a deputy, then I don't think it would be good for him to change him in the event of his absence by the person who's going to be proposed by the representative body. We know that there are often conflicting political options in the council in relation to which the mayor or the chief belongs and when we already give him all the obligations, responsibility, and he signs a statement of fiscal responsibility, then I think that this law should give him the right to be the person who will propose the person who will change him. It may be and I agree that it should be from the council because both council members and the city council list, or the municipal council, is that which goes to the elections and also gets a mandate from the citizens, but in any case, that one who changes the mayors and mayors must be proposed on his behalf. Also, there are numerous deputy mayors, mayors who are doing their job, working on either European projects or other projects, whether they are in charge of working with associations or something like that, so that you should consider that maybe not only cities over 35 thousand inhabitants have the right to one deputy, but that they have some smaller cities, because basically, when we look at a little statistics in Croatia, we all have one city between 30 to 35 thousand inhabitants, five cities less than 30, and more than 25 thousand people, and so on and so on, 6 within the borders of 20 to 25 thousand inhabitants, so here, I would like to reconsider the transparency of the possibility that this limit and limit put something more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22663	We have more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22664	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Yurichev. You were born Vodnièanka and you know what status Vodice had as part of the municipality, former Sibenik municipality. You were also the mayor of Vodice, so you know that Vodice as an independent local unit did everything for his fellow citizens, but also for numerous guests, tourists who come to Vodice. Do you think this could all be achieved in Vodice if they remained in the Sibenik municipality, when we talk about social, we talk about municipal infrastructure, but also when we talk about the tourist promotion of Vodice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22665	The Honorable representative of Juricev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22666	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Begonja. Vodice would never have been able to achieve this if they had remained in the Sibenik municipality. Before and through the replica of my colleague Boris, I pointed out the example when the village of Tribunj was part of the town of Vodice, meaning the best feeling of any of its citizens, the needs, the priorities of the neighborhood of someone who is right here, who is breathing for that place, and I think the small municipalities are something, one of our special wealth that needs to be nurtured, because when we see how much effort those small municipalities are making and how much effort they make and what they bring to their ends, then it would be really sad for someone to say that they are unnecessary, that they are the cost and I would suggest, as a colleague, that Boric is the one who thinks that his municipality is the cost, so let's just say that for this speaker so we can see how and what support he will get from his locals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22667	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22668	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here in the context of your debate, the County of Zadar will instead have one, the city of Zadar will have one deputy instead of two, in the number of members of representative bodies in the county, from 42, will be 31, in the city from 31 to 27. Therefore, there is a visible reduction in the number of members of the representative bodies and a reduction in the number of officials. Therefore, this is another additional argument to achieve certain savings and what I was talking about design and the context is precisely whether or not it is necessary to abolish what these municipalities and cities are actually bringing to their citizens in such a wide area of quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22669	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22670	Thank you very much. So, colleagues Peric, just like our Sibenik-Knin County, will also have 1, in addition to the one they will get from the order of national minorities, the town of Sibenik, which is the centre of the county, will also have only one, my Vodice, since they have a slightly smaller population of 10 thousand, will have no deputies, although I will say for this speaker that indeed many deputy mayors have worked hard and it would be ugly to assume that they are surpluses, arrests or how any of the opposition MPs already know how to pronounce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22671	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22672	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, in your debate, you pointed out the savings in, related to this law, so since we just heard one, in the presentation of an opposition council on some three-bit 35 million kunas, you've been the head of local self-government, you've been an economist by profession, so what do you say to those three-bit 35 million, and I'm not talking about all those other savings that this law makes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22673	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22674	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, colleagues of Grba-Bujevic. It's very sad to hear something say something is writing,.../incomprehensible/... or demeaning not one million. First of all, this law brings savings of 100 million kuna, and some 35 million kuna, I wonder how these municipalities we talk about today are very much, so that, as they look at 100 thousand kunas as well. As mayor, as you said, and economists, we wrote projects, and we were very happy to get 100,000 kunas from the ministry, they can only think of small municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22675	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative and vice president of this House, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22676	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the merger of the state administration in the county, so now after 20 years, can we look at whether it was a successful reform of the SDP government, we know that it was introduced by the SDP in 2001, that reform big, then where they separated the state administration from the regional administration in the counties and now we see after 20 years what the success of this reform was, and we see how much it was practically useful and necessary at that time. Today those who teach us how this isn't worth it, let's see how their reform ended, how about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22677	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22678	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, we know exactly when and why this happened. Namely, in the counties, he regularly received HDZ in most counties and then, when the SDP government was to have its people at that level. What we all do in municipalities, cities, counties and, as well as in the state administration, we should be our citizens and finding out when any of their demands. Our citizens were more or less lost because they came to the state administration's office so they're looking for something, then they say, "No, it's in county jurisdiction, and then I think more of us who are younger and I'd say both in writing and closer, we didn't know at what point to ask the county and when to ask the state administration's office. I think this is very good now and it's proven to be both optimal and rational.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22679	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22680	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. You also mentioned an amendment that the club will invest, and regarding the choice of deputies at the moment if, due to certain circumstances, the mayor or mayor of a small town who does not have the right to elect a deputy cannot act on his duty, and I believe that this is as proposed by the amendment to choose the mayor correctly in relation to this proposal that we have in the draft of the law because, by law by local law, the mayor and when someone changes it, is still responsible for the actions of that deputy, meaning that his responsibility does not cease, and also, since the major units of the locals have their own deputies, I think that it is fair to put them in the same position, means that they decide on their own deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22681	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22682	Thank you very much. That's right, colleague Jelkovac. The mayor, or mayor, has received the trust of his citizens over 50%, and I think he also has a responsibility, responsibility, and then the right to choose who will change him in the event of his prevention. Of course, he is a member of a representative body or there are cases where we have a deputy who is of the order of national minorities, and this is exactly the mayor who wants him to be his replacement in the event of his prevention, and it is also good to do so and if the law obliges him to do so at the beginning of the term of office. If there is any change or I do not know in the council there are different reasons why the mayor no longer wants to be that person, to change it again during the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22683	And the last replica of the respected representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22684	Here's a colleague you said actually that you feel it is necessary for the mayor, or the mayor, to choose his own deputy to do so, and I would relate, given that it is indeed a great danger for local, regional self-government units that the temporary deputy has the authority to do just as regular and necessary jobs have been said. If we were to subdue and even with the Interim Financing Act, then the question is raised, and it actually leads to the problem that the Ministry has put forward in explaining the amendments to these amendments, and it is that this Law is actually on track to ensure continuity in the work of the local self-government units. So if this is about regular and necessary jobs then really local self-government units are going to get into trouble by running all those programs and projects they've set themselves up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22685	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22686	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Udovic, I think that we are all agreed that there really should be a mayor, the mayor of the person who will choose that temporary replacement, and also when it comes to the powers of that deputy and there should be a lot of caution, given that there are other legal obligations that bind and bind the mayor, the chief, despite the fact that it is another person. Because, as I said, the Declaration of Fiscal Responsibility binds the mayor and the chief, and there is no possibility of transferring that obligation and responsibility to someone appointed by the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22687	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative and vice president of this House of Miroslav Skora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for coming and for your honor, Mr. Vice President. Today is the International Day for Combating Corruption, so just at the outset I want to congratulate everyone who celebrates, conducts and respects it. We started it by exposing the Minister on the subject of amendments and the addition of three laws with which most discussions have nothing to do with it, because they refer more to the Law on as I said areas of the county, cities and municipalities in Croatia and in the debates are mainly trying to impute the opposition that they want to abolish something, that they want to do something, and that their problem is the costs of municipalities and cities. Well, ladies and gentlemen are not our problem, like all Croatian citizens, the cost of cities and municipalities, we have a problem with the costs of people who, for no reason or reason, lead to bankruptcy and spending sometimes not only more than 20% but 30% and all these budgets on their own needs. But where are all the Turks here and Little Mujo? I'm going to tell you that in principle the comparison works, because we need one whole solution, not a partial solution, a complete solution that, of course, is impossible to make in one of these commercial situations where the ruling story is. In fact, the total opportunities of the city of Zagreb are greater than the sum of the total incomes of 120 cities. 52 municipalities have less than 1,000 inhabitants, citizens have 129, while Chepin has over 10,000 inhabitants, I happen to know. However, the proposed solution focuses on reducing the number of officials, and it is very questionable how realistic the minister's savings are when we already have in the public accounts that indicate that the savings will be three times lower and that it is legitimate that everyone has their calculations. You 100 million, someone 38 million, but it's still a percentage of what we really need. There is no will, there is no vision, there is no strength, there is no competence for real reforms, although they are absolutely everyone and the EU. The local administration should, among other things, ensure a balanced territorial development of Croatia as one of the key strategic objectives of fragmentation because we have as many as 555, 556 municipalities and cities and we have come to a crowding of jobs that burdens the system and leads to the demographic devastation of many areas. And we agree that the number of these people must be reduced. We welcome this, but it is a partial, little cosmetic solution in the city of Zagreb that has almost a million inhabitants from 51 council members to 47. A drastic difference and a mystical difference, and I think after this, we're really going to go drastically forward. On the other hand, we just have to decide what we want. Recently, the ruling majority adopted a new Foreign Act de facto announcing the adoption of an immigration strategy. Not all of you again, but particular because the government has established, now watch this, as in Croatia so-called. Sleeping areas to be revitalised through the settlement of foreigners. It has been established in the same law that there are more and more local units in rural areas in Croatia that cannot worry about the basic problems of their locals, so Croatia needs immigration that will make up the entire family, which will be integrated into the community. Does this mean that what Tado Juric says, Dr. Juric saves the state and loses the people. So, Croatia is turning into a settler country where, according to the available data, mostly foreign workers without higher education come in. 9 out of 14 counties in continental Croatia recorded a decline in population up to 10 to 20% This is a crucial problem. This is the result of the present organization and structure and I congratulate you on that as well. At the same time, poverty in Croatia has been concentrated significantly in rural areas, especially along the eastern and southeastern borders. The problem of social exclusion is further contributed by large regional differences in unemployment rates ranging from 4.7% in Zagreb to 24.3% in Sisak-Moslavina County and you are free to deny me. Nearly 40% of the unemployed live in eastern and central Croatia, although only 1/4 of the total population live in these areas. So let me finish. Too much complexity, insufficient stability, imbalances, insufficient efficiency of local self-government, poor development potentials and ensuring the centralised management of this country are the main characteristics of the existing structure and, of course, we will not support this package of laws. Here are your replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22689	You have two replicas. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22690	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Škoro, you probably said because of the impression that many units spend their entire budgets on salaries. I don't know about any such case. I'd love it if you knew how to name it. This is simply not possible under the law itself, which defines that it is possible to allocate up to 20% of the original budget. At the time of the SDP's rule, it was a problem in some small units not to exceed 20% for wages, because they have taken some such measures that have compromised the budgets of units of local and regional self-government. However, this government has also made it possible through tax reform to really strengthen fiscally these small units and that they really do not have such problems. As for this, your ideas or your allegations that we want to preserve, we want to preserve both the state and the people. And exactly in these rural areas if we don't have municipalities who's going to stay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22691	Thank you, Mrs. Jelkovac. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22692	Thank you very much. Let's go from good, keep from 3 and a half, out of 4 and a half million you've come to a little less than 4 million. Congratulations. The second thing, you and I were on the same board together, so we talked on this subject, and you heard for yourself that the proposal was even a fellow SDP fellow, and I think it would support these amendments and amendments to the law if you accepted the amendment and their condition that they should not exceed 20%, so you refused. And this third thing you were saying was about, I'm sorry. Please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22693	Please, there's no way a dialogue can be done like that. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22694	Yes, so as to whether there are so many municipalities that spend it, I cited it as an example because there were such situations. So there were situations like that. Let's let it go now, and in that sense, this whole thing that you're doing right now is pure cosmetics. It has nothing to do with what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22695	Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22696	... Honorable Vice President, that's your title, yes. [[You don't understand.]] So, Your Honor, you were talking about even territorial development. At this point in the Republic of Croatia, we have made a difference in unemployment, but we have a huge difference in economic, but also in development areas where you have certain areas that are completely devastated from any production of work including quality agricultural areas that do not work. Unfortunately, it's not made, but we've got abandoned ornaments. Especially in Zadar County, it's very pronounced for us. So I'm interested in how you think that, which would be a complete solution, of course, I agree with you that we need a whole new Law on Local Self-Government, but what would be the complete solution that could obviously make us these Slavonia projects are not good enough to finally move us, so what would be the whole solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22697	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22698	Thank you very much. So a complete solution should therefore create legal assumptions that Croatia ceases to be a country based on imports and trade. What matters and what they teach us at the Faculty of Economics is definitely production and export. That would help Croatia. But in order to encourage production, then the money that comes for production incentives should really be directed there. We are, unfortunately, a country that has big financial problems, so all the money we collect and that comes to us, we make it between 1st and 1st. First for pensions, then for wages, and then the first thing that comes next in line for a tranche of credit or something. Unfortunately, when we don't have a vision and we don't have a whole solution, then this is how we particulate and entertain the people, and in the end, it's going to be 76 hands in the air again and it's going to be the ruling majority that ripped this solution out. We're gonna have to wait for a better time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22699	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable members of the government, distinguished MPs and MPs. If Galileo Galileo were alive, he'd say he's moving. We've heard a lot of things here today in these discussions. I, as a man who comes from Osijek-Baranja County, from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, who I have spent almost all of my political life in local and regional self-governments and I certainly believe that these amendments of the law lead us to the ultimate goal in which most MPs here speak. The law on local and regional self-government was passed in 1993. 27 years just enough to see what we've managed to do. Very much so. I'm going to say very much especially in these last four or five years and I'm afraid that we've chosen some other local structure not even close to achieving these goals that we now have independent of what is the political option where in power. If we had stayed in the old municipalities that once existed or had smaller settlements leaned on larger cities, we would have had big problems. They wouldn't reach 50% of the municipal or social infrastructure we have now. That's good. That's something to protect. There is even more to see if we can further disperse more settlements to get that legal personality, to be those who can report to EU funds so that they can participate naturally and with the restoring ministries. That's good. Let's say a few examples. It is the largest municipality in the Republic of Croatia. It could practically have the status of the city because it has over 10,000 inhabitants. But I'm in favour of a Vishnevac who has 8 and a half thousand inhabitants also getting his legal personality, not being the suburban settlement of the city of Osijek because he would do a lot more for those living in that area. I like to speak plastic. When we passed the law in '93. In those years, my Ladimirians who have 1600 inhabitants became the suburban settlement of the city of Valpova, and 12 municipalities in my county have fewer inhabitants than these of my Ladimirites. And we for 27 years no matter who's in power, HDZ was 27 years old, now an independent list we no longer arrive at that swing we had until '93. A year. This is the most complex example that we must think carefully, so I agree with all those who in their debate pointed out this, that this is a very complex issue, that this is a good first step to reduce the part that burdens, of course, units of local self-government, but that our intensity is this ultimate goal, which is the new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. But once again, please don't go easy on the solution to bring back such small places as the Wolf, the Vladislavs, I don't know Antunovec, Ernestinov, to surround them around the great city. It won't end well. Today we're all talking about this demographic wasteland that destroys both Slavonia and Baranja and Lika and Zagora. Therefore, if we leave this legal personality to these units of local self-government, we will surely get to what we are looking for sooner, which is that Croatia does not record such a decline in the number of inhabitants. There's been a lot of talk about transparency. So isn't it the role of the unit leader of local self-government to be transparent, to make it clear to its citizens what he spends his money on, how he spends it, and where he spends it? Well, that should be some kind of code that every local self-government leader should have when he swears to this honorable duty to be the mayor, mayor or mayor. Well, that's basic, it's an articulation with those who chose you to act like one. So a lot of what we have touched today may well be some seed that is sown for what awaits us for that harvest that we need to do when we pass this whole law that will surely solve those problems that we have now. But I agree with that and I will always promote that if we did not choose such a structure I am sure that Croatia would look quite different today. And if we're going to be right, look at how many other countries in the environment have units of local self-government, so we're going to see that this number is certainly not the main subject of the debate that should be held here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22701	Thank you. You have three replicas. Stay. Mr. Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22702	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of yours you've been speaking very nicely about the leaders of some small municipalities where many people have done great things and where small municipalities have developed extremely well. This debate should be a time to thank and congratulate all people, although many of them have come to the Parliament and it is likely their reward for what they have done well for their environments. But I think here you should think about categorizing municipalities in several levels, being at least three levels of municipalities, three levels of cities. In my country, it's not normal for the town of Split and I don't know little Vrlika to have the same status. I think the ministry was supposed to pay a little more attention here, and then if we need to cut these 20% of what Mr. Scoro was talking about, he knows he's got more, and there's certainly no more. If 20% is a lot of it we can think about and join it to 10, 15% but we can't do it like this, some study should show that and that legal status is given to others and maybe more volunteers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22703	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22704	I agree. If you look at how the rest of the countries of Eastern Europe have solved it this very way of categorizing. The categorization is certainly something that can be one of the solutions, but I'm going to go back to what's the measure. I'll tell you about a municipality you may not know of in the Marians municipality has 2,000 inhabitants. At this point, he's making investments for 46 million kuna. Now imagine that these Marians who are geographically belonging to the town of Lower Miholjc stayed near the town of Lower Miholjc, would not have achieved no 46 million, they might not have achieved 460,000 because it is simply Miholjac's center and, of course, wants to invest in its communal infrastructure. Therefore, this is a very good debate for all of us who participate here to do the best for Croatia. After all, that is why we are here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22705	Thank you. Mr. Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22706	Dear counterpart Ivanovic, you mentioned the Osijek-Baranja County. I will, for example, set an example for the Municipality of Antunovac, who has made a project of an entrepreneurial incubator worth 21 million kuna among numerous projects. The main budget of the municipality is about 5 times smaller than the project. The municipality has about 3700 inhabitants. Do you feel that such a municipality and its inhabitants would be easier to operate and would be able to implement such projects in such values that they are, for example, part of the city of Osijek? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22707	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22708	Thank you very much. This is also one of those plastic examples when it comes to local design. Of course not, Antunovac is today the only municipality in the area of Osijek-Baranja County that does not belong to that quota of undeveloped municipalities that must receive assistance from the Enabling Fund and this is an excellent example. I think that these amendments to the laws that we are discussing today are slowly but certainly lead us into this story and I've read basically all of that correspondence that was being conducted in the public debate where local self-governments appeared and where they almost all pointed to this whole solution. This is part of a solution, i.e. the beginning of a solution that needs to be achieved with something much larger, which is the new structure of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22709	Thank you. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22710	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'd like to ask you a question, actually. What exactly did you mean about the conversation, or your exposure to the transparency of the budget, or the transparency of the management of municipalities and cities? Because it is visible according to the data that this is not exactly the case, that we are weak in general in Croatia and that this should be regulated not only by this law and not by this law, but by some other laws and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22711	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22712	Thank you very much. I agree, though. It is unthinkable for me that the councilor must ask the mayor or the captain to list his fourth or fifth level of budget. It just can't be. What do we have to hide in that fourth, third or fifth level budget so that it wouldn't be the public who chose us and who, based on our program, gave us confidence that we don't tell the public clearly that we spent 100 kunas in a guesthouse if we had a guest? What's so messed up that you can't do that? And I absolutely agree that this law, or amendment of the law, is now moving towards the law being the particular one on the implementation of the budget where it will have to be clearly put all the way to the last level, so that we will no longer have to ask the council's question that the mayor tells us what is hiding at level four or five.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22713	And finally Mrs. Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22714	Thank you. Your Honor, you said that the largest municipality in the Republic of Croatia is the Chepin municipality with about 10,000 inhabitants. I need to correct you. It's the municipality of Viskovo, the municipality where I'm the chief. 2011 according to the list of 14 thousand 445. Now almost 17,000 inhabitants. A municipality that has so far had two deputies, as proposed by this law, would lose the right to both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22715	Here's an answer to see who's richer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22716	I'm sorry. Here I go... to Eastern Slavonia and to say that Chepin is the largest municipality. [[You don't understand.]] Indeed, it is the second largest municipality in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But it's not likely a metric, and I welcome what this amendment has been and will direct our club to units of local self-government over 10,000 residents have one deputy. I think that's definitely good. This will significantly help the mayors and mayors, and most of the cities are in that category of 10, up to 20 or 25 thousand inhabitants. I therefore absolutely agree with this, and I hope that both the Government and the Proposer will adopt this proposal and this will significantly facilitate the work of these local leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22717	Thank you very much. Otherwise, Mr. Ivanovic, Galileo said, "It is still moving." He was not sure either. Mr. Stipan Shashin has his own argument. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22718	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the head of one of the eight municipalities in Baranja and the City of Beli Manastir which currently operates in Baranja, I would like to say something about these proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Once in Baranja, or the whole of Baranja, there was practically one municipality, or City of Beli Manastir, which is now, and today as I have said, it is 8 municipalities and the city. That these 8 municipalities and the city have absolutely justified their existence and their work in the past 27 years is best seen from the fact of the built infrastructure in the Baranja area, primarily through the construction of local roads, municipal infrastructures or water supply, gasification, sports halls, kindergartens, social homes and all that we need at first after returning to Baranja or after peaceful reintegration, and I now say in these conditions. What these opposition demands are heading towards abolishing certain municipalities is simply a focus and a tendency to in some way municipalities where they have tried several times to get to power, tried several times to run for office failed simply because they do not have people, have no infrastructure in these areas and now advocate their abolition, their merger, etc. I'd appreciate it if you heard the initiatives of the people, from the locals, the inhabitants of these municipalities that they're launching such initiatives to abolish a particular community. But believe me, here I am in these, how many now, 12 years I've been the chief there I'm moving amongst people, ordinary people I've never heard from anyone such an initiative in that sense that it proposes to abolish my community or anything like that. There are initiatives, there are ideas and we have already done a lot of things and we have done to combine the common necessary functions of the municipal economy, waste management, joint water supply, common tourist community at Baranja level, etc. and this has proved well and this should be made possible and this should be improved. However, the abolition of the municipalities themselves really at this point would not have done any good to the inhabitants of these municipalities or to the entire community. In all these units or municipalities, there are mostly unique administrative departments, which on average count from about three, four, five people to 7, 8 most in larger municipalities. And these are the people who work to prepare, to fill the budget, to implement it, but are also working on the implementation and planning of all European projects that result in frequent budgets being several times larger than the part that is to say the original revenue of the budget. So I absolutely say, these people justify their existence and are certainly no burden to the units of local self-government or to those residents there. I think what they do, or the 20% that are mentioned here for their salaries, which are simply limited to not being allowed to exceed 20% of the original funds of the budget, no one is talking about what the 80% is about, no matter what the budget is. So 80% of these funds are practically staying and investing in the development, i.e. in the infrastructure of the municipality. So we simply have to look at it, be as realistic as I can tell you because ultimately their incomes, their wages, they remain in that unit of local self-government, and that makes that unit somewhat fiscally sustainable, simply in some way contributes to the development of life throughout that environment. What I do in some way in these amendments and the additions of the law may in some way be a little hesitated by that is the fact that next year we have a census that will show maybe different figures, and given that a large number of the provisions of this law are precisely related to the number of inhabitants, the number of council members in the councils and their compensation, etc. We can reach certain gaps because we will simply have to do so for the next 10 years, in this number we will rule and unfortunately it is impossible to complete the census before the elections are held in May next year. So that part of the law may need to be harmonised in some way later. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22719	But stay here because Mr. Fabianic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22720	I feel disappointed. In fact, this was about some in the opposition claiming that some municipalities should be closed down. Tell me who's name and last name, because I certainly didn't say it, nor did I say it. Politics is made of names and names. Therefore, then it should be concrete because otherwise I really feel disappointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22721	I'm sorry. I have to give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22722	I couldn't agree more with you. Let every one who thinks it is necessary to put an end to any community, most of all let his say so. But if there are any arguments why a municipality or city should be abolished, let it speak plainly. But you have to admit that most of the discussion of the opposition was focused precisely on the goal of going, because you said that this is not really, that these are cosmetic procedures, that this is not any changes to the law because there is no real reform, there is no abolition. It's a tendency that we as chiefs simply conclude or see from your discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22723	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mrs. Barbara Antholic Vupra's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22724	Honorable chairman, respected MPs and MPs. So, I would continue to feel like I've exhausted all the replicas, so I couldn't react sharply to some sort of malicious thing actually makes me notice that the opposition to abolishing the municipalities is. So, I repeat, as a representative of the SDP, as a member of one of the largest and largest opposition parties, so in the SDP, we never talked about closing or abolishing certain municipalities. So, I have no knowledge of it, nor have I ever heard of any of my colleagues talking about the need to shut down or shut down one of the municipalities. So it's a meal and surely our thinking, our attitudes will never go that way. In fact, it's exactly the opposite. In our discussions, we will base ourselves on enabling people to participate as best and direct as possible in deciding things that are directly related to their lives. Hence, from communal problems to social problems that are tackled firsthand and most in municipalities and cities. It's both important and necessary. And right where they're at least in the middle, that way of management is particularly important. On the other hand, the question is how is it functional and best to edit it. So, in a way that certain jobs can be combined and reduced by yes, but not by abolishing certain environments. So in that part, we've made it clear, and in the second part, I would especially like to look back on how the law is passed. It seems to me to be brought in a way of cosmetic change, but on the other hand, better something, better and one step towards full reform to local self-government than nothing. So I don't agree that now is the time. This should have been more thoroughly prepared and taken step by step towards making this management more efficient. And that is why I am surprised that in no part of it is mentioned, but in the replica of the charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is unusually important to us, which means that these steps as local self-government we are going through a thorny path towards an arrangement that would be more meaningful, more efficient, cheaper for our country. Therefore, you do not have this European Charter of Local Self-Government in any sentence in the amendments to the law. I note, in particular, that under the concept of local self-government as understood by the Charter, Article 3(1) under local self-government implies the right and possibility of local units to regulate and manage in the frameworks of certain laws with their own responsibility and in the interests of the local public essential parts, part of public affairs. So, it's important that the responsibility and management of the lex sheriff that I didn't call that name is known in both the media and the media, not the adjective, I'm sorry that this is because the fact is that the lex sheriff became because of that name, because of the negative implications and the negative actions of those leaders. For what? For it was by direct choice that she made available to them the entire budget, that the malts do not have the budget, that is, the taxpayers' money without, without strong control of the congregations or councils. In that part, it should certainly apply and amend the provisions concerning that part at least in the future. I see my time is up, I'm sorry, I could've done a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22725	You have two replicas. Dear Mr. Shashin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22726	Uh, people say 100 times tell a lie and 101 times it'll be true. So I see you're using every opportunity to accidentally drag that lex sheriff, sheriff, etc., and then you wonder where they call it as the sheriff's commissioners. I've been Chief here for 12 years, and I don't really feel like a sheriff would be a regular cowboy anymore if I could choose this one, but I think you're also talking about you not being up for the removal of municipalities, and you're always dragging that thesis to sort of make it a real solution, but nobody's going to really suggest it. So gather your courage and say what you really mean in public for once.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22727	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22728	Thank you very much. It is indeed an honor to the exceptions that feel so, unfortunately we are witnessing that the lex sheriff repeats it once again from the title to what is happening today very close. So it happens that the chiefs and other leaders simply manage money without strong control of the assembly or council. So, it's saddening that it's a fact, and just because these budgets are closed once again, this fact proves that it's necessary to change it in order for you and some others to have a much better name and a colloquial in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22729	Yeah, as far as I can remember, the sheriff shares justice... So I don't know why the sheriff, the lex banker. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22730	I'll give you an example, the same generation we have one chief, 5 mandates the mayor of the municipality, build both the hall and the bog club, the infrastructure, introduce gasification, and everything after those mandates you know what a man had to do, buy a delivery vehicle and now take a ride to have what to live on. On the other hand, the one who called him Lex Sheriff, not him, but all of us, after two years of office here in the Croatian Parliament now has a parliamentary pension. And no one's talking about it. This one worked for his community, managed by his money, snidely called the lex sheriff, and we know a lot of those of us who are in contact and who are working in the field, and these choosers have a congregation pension. And those who call us lex sheriff here now we've seen here that some kind of application has two parties to buy budget money.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22731	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22732	I totally agree with you, so it's inappropriate for me to have someone who's trying to be characterized by that bad application of the sheriff that we heard actually share justice. So, it is generally a positive name, but in Croatian society, following these bad moves by leaders who are used in the money of the state budget to realise their own interests came to a negative omen. Therefore, the intensity of the legislation was good, but time has shown that some other models of representative democracy should and should be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22733	And in the end, Mr. Uncle No, not you, Mr. Uncle has a replica yet. [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22734	Mr. Uncle?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22735	Uncle? Oh, you see, after so many years, I'll remember now. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22736	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we come from Varazdin County, I think the whole area is very well known to you and to me, we visited it several times during the elections and in general when the events are opening. I believe that all our mayors and commissioners are doing well and that the results are visible at every step in all six municipalities, in 22 municipalities and 6 cities. However, I would not agree with you regarding the lack of control of the representative body over the work of the mayor and the captain. So every councilman gets an insight into the budget. He can react to the amendments, he can publicly hold the press, comment, say what he's pleased with, which he's not. With rebalancing, too, in projections, I also think there are enough mechanisms for the representative body to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22737	Thank you very much, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22738	Thank you very much. I'd be happy to give you an example. So in the City of Varazdin where May I? [[/Intruder Radin: Yes, yes, you can answer. Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22740	Excuse me. Excuse me. So, I'd like to give you an example from the City of Varazdin. [[/Intruder Radin: Please respond. Return the chronometer. Not the time, we can't do that. Chronometer.]] So there's a councilman who's now also running for mayor of the SDP, Neven Bosil, on several occasions, wanted to get through the right to access information a part of the information concerning the budget that he simply needs to know as a councilman, and in order to know him in detail he must get information. He can't even get information about that part. So, it's very questionable to function and the way that the mayor, the mayor, works. So responsibility really has a name and a name.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22741	Thank you very much. Now you don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And it's Mr. Erik Fabianic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22742	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't mind being called "lex sheriff." I mean, the sheriff is the one who shares justice in the cowboyry? There is one thing, but it is still not a measure of this law, which is that the leaders of the units of local, regional self-government are directly elected by citizens so that they have certain electoral legitimacy and legality. Legality also has representative bodies. It is difficult to respond and find an ideal relationship between representative bodies and dutyholders at local and regional level for this very reason because they are directly selected. While at the state level we have one reverse... We have a president with no authority directly elected by the citizens, and again we have a prime minister elected by the Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] There is a relationship that is easiest to define because the prime minister and ministers, or the government, answer to us, not to the citizens because they are chosen as well. So that is, there will be an eternal controversy and a dilemma about what is legality and what is the legality, what is the legitimacy there will be eternal controversy. But that's not the basis of these changes and additions. It was also spoken here with certain impulses that are related to the removal of cities and municipalities. Gentlemen, as far as I know, and I think I'm already one or eight terms in representative bodies, it's not regulated by this law. It is regulated by the Law on districts, towns and counties. Therefore, go impute something, so give me in which parliamentary procedure did someone by name and last name propose amendments and additions to the Law on City Areas, Towns and Countys before you start calling something like this? It's oxygen consumption, it's oxygen consumption. Now we're coming to this topic. When we talk about this subject it was done from the hills from the valley and it was made from the hills from the valley 6 months before the local elections, so let's change the fees and figures regarding the representative bodies. Okay. But that is what makes it possible for new choices to be made, and that is what this is for. So what if it's for that? But it serves that, and... you see, I was among the few who truly positively welcomed the changes and additions brought by HDZ because it finally cleared up the rights and responsibilities of city, municipal councilors and members of the county councils that Article 9 is now being disastrously challenged. They've become a total disgrace. So, I have to agree with the employer whether and when to let me go to the assembly, to the city and municipal council, and you have finally come to a provision on the basis of which it is justified to stay out of work because, directly or indirectly, I was elected by the citizens through the list or as an independent candidate in the representative body, which should be to every employer of pride and discipline. And now we're going back to the fact that one employee has to ask the employer to let him go. Well, they're gonna let him go when it comes to the decision on the communal fee, so let's see how he lets go. Or they'll let him go, but on a condition especially if he's tied to the state, and the state, for instance, has a different party colour. No, you don't have to go to the council, because you have to break my budget. So, as it was addressed here after you had greatly resolved the question of justifiable absence so that you could attend the representative's body because it is still an honorable duty she de facto is now now becoming dishonest again. So other articles wouldn't. The criteria, the criteria, so how many of those from the hills from the valley are made. There's a reduction here. There's a reduction in council fees. Well, there's no working bodies here, and there's no president of the working bodies. They're gone, they don't exist. So the representative bodies don't have their own working bodies. Second. In total in Croatia, what a Croatian citizen gives 10 kuna, 9 kuna goes to the state, 1 kuna, and 1 kuna totals all the counties, cities and municipalities. So much for shutting down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22743	Thank you. Wait, wait, Eric. Mr. Zeljko Pavić is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22744	Your Honor, we're witnessing a strange event here today. Namely, here are our colleagues on the right hand side of the pay phone persistently imploding to the left that it is for the removal of municipalities and cities which is not true. None of our deputies mentioned it, and theirs mentioned at least ten and commented on it. On the other hand, they forgot what law they passed in the last term. They passed the Lex Sheriff Act. Why "lex sheriff"? Because when the mayor or the mayor gives the draft budget, if the council doesn't accept it, who goes to the election? The mayor? No, I don't. The council's coming. So who has absolute authority? The mayor enforces the law in his own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22745	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22746	I thank you for this question. So either way, either in the previous session, if we're going to party around these topics, we're never going to bring a situation that's our common goal, which is that we have a quality local self-government because it's closest to the citizens. But it certainly can't be done through one blitz e-consumption and two readings per emergency procedure. It only speaks of the way we treat the fate of our cities, municipalities and counties. Whether it was called "lex sheriff" or not, I said it was a matter of regulation of certain relationships that could be like this or not. But it would be good if everyone in this House could defend them the moment we raise a hand for them, and now this is impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22747	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now it's Mr. Zeljko Sacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22748	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. This law certainly came too late to our benches and it is certainly not as comprehensive as we expected, as it was in certain parts of the debate in the public, in the media so that absolutely close to me and I support the remarks that my fellow predecessors made regarding his inadequacy specifically regarding the lack of an example of limiting the number of mandates of certain local administration and self-government leaders. It is amazing that we remain deaf, silent of the fact that some people, despite standards, remain European or worldly in their positions practically as long as they are alive or can be alive. I know, you'll tell me that's the will of the citizens. But since the constitutional category of restrictive mandates for example for the president of the state, why not also be limited by three or four terms to the area of local administration and self-government. It is also an incredible circumstance that we have remained deaf and blind by misreading the constitutional category of presumption of innocence, which primarily refers to concrete parties in the dispute, in the criminal justice process to the relationship between prosecutors, defendants and courts, the state is ultimately in charge of this fundamental principle. For example, it has absolutely no meaning for all the public, because otherwise we would come to absurdity to see with our eyes that a man kills a man and he would be innocent to us. Well, of course he's not innocent when he's a murderer. So let's not underestimate that. Let us also, you have failed to put a specific category in our law, existing that you cannot run for such functions if the first degree conviction is convicted of serious criminal offences from the jurisdiction of the USKOK, i.e. jumping courts. It's a whole bunch of tremendously serious corruption crimes or organised crime or acts of violence or terrorism or anything else. It is also absolutely acceptable for me to have the idea of our colleagues who are saying that the deputy mayor, or mayors, if they are prevented from being able to influence who will really change it in case, as colleagues from Istria have proposed their amendment, because they could be brought into an absurd situation. Now, as regards the reduction of the number of representatives, i.e. councilors in urban districts, local committees in Zagreb and the City Assembly, there is a specific situation. Of course we support this situation that, with 51 council mandates in the City Assembly, we accept a reduction to 47 council members, that's about 8%. But then we should have been consistent, and we should have reached certain areas according to the city districts, because our urban districts are even numbered somewhere, like the Sesvete 70,000 inhabitants. They've got 19 councilmen in City Hall. Some have Zagreb east – Trešnjevka north – south of 56, 59 also thousands of inhabitants, so they have between 17 and some 15 council members etc. And now the essence of the story is in the next. When the crisis occurs, we can talk about how vice-presidents of these City Quarter Councils can be at an opportunity of untappedness and receive compensation, for example, from two and a half thousand kuna. But the situation is quite simple for the city of Zagreb, because both the president and vice president of the city's fourth pick is the majority. Therefore, these relations are clear, but the situation is certainly unsustainable with regard to this president who is doing their job to the city's council of districts extremely responsibly and, in fact, they also need to increase the compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22749	Stay, Mr. Sacic. Mr. Shashin gives you a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22750	Dear fellow Sacic, if I understand you correctly, you are in favour of limiting the mandate, or to two mandates, to the maximum for the head of the municipality. a 3 to 4 [[Incursion: 3 to 4 mandates.]] That's another thing, though. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] But here I'll point you at, [[You're 12 years old until...]] to the fact [[Intruder: I think if you haven't achieved the program...]] We have mayors of municipalities who have been here for 27 years already head of municipalities, so since '93. He is the head of the municipality in particular in the municipality of Petrijevci, Mr. Ivan Zelic. [[I'm sorry, we can't do that.]] And today, this man and the year he's likely to run, he wins by over 50% in the first round. In this way, not to deny it, but to those citizens, they would deny the people of the municipality their right to choose who they want, if they wanted that man, probably a real man proved himself. So I'm against any of these restrictions wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22751	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22752	Well, in principle I can agree with you, however, there are fundamental principles and principles of democratic rule, so even Putin, the great Putin in Russia respects, so interrupts, so our president, the institution of the president of the Republic of Croatia, respects it to be 2 mandates, the only president of HVIDRE is Mr Djakic for life probably and this man of yours will also be mayor Bandic, but it does not democratically generate it, it creates conditions for corrupt actions. The democratic world doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22753	You're done, by the 17th and 15th winding of the council. It's 17.06 p.m. Let's move on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.20 HOURS]] Mr. Zeljko Pavić if he's somewhere. Mr. Pavić, it's your turn. Here you go, it's all cleaned up. It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22755	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Here I would return to the topic we have today on the agenda and I am sorry that there are no mayors and mayors who spoke about the transparency and openness of the work of the local self-government unit and Mrs. Peric. And I just want it to be established that they're not synonyms. The transparency of the work of local self-government units and the openness of the work of local self-government units are not synonyms and should be kept in mind. So Mrs. Peric explained what transparency is, and the openness of work has a lot of factors to be the work of the local self-government unit, and one of them is that actually based on the collected information and data from the public are actually like input data and information for the work of local self-government. So there's no colleague here who claims that we don't know what transparency is, which is openness, but here's what you see we know. I would also refer to Article 22 of the Law, which states that information will be published in a way that will be available and searched. First of all, I would like to point out that this is not really about information, but about data, so I would like to ask the Proposer to change it in the text of the proposed law. And I also note that it would be necessary for these data to be easily available in the table format, searchable and processed. So it's working all the way to the level of analysis, including that level. This would allow real insight into data and data analysis in table calculators and other data analysis tools. Well, I also wrote the amendment, and I hope that this amendment will not affect anything except that we are actually getting the data in a transparent form. I hope it's accepted. We have already heard the answers from the gentleman who is from Bjelovar that in fact, the question I wanted to ask is why is not a deadline in which leaders are obliged to publish the data as well as the question of what happens to leaders who do not publish or publish these data after the prescribed deadline if that deadline is attributed or what criminal provisions are. We've already heard those answers, and now we've heard that's actually the part that's going to be processed in the Budget Law. But they were alive to see if it was really going to be like that or if we were going to wait for sublaws to regulate it. In connection with the publication of the data, I propose to the Proposer to define and obtain a single platform for the publication of budget spending data for all units of local self-government, and thus to allow unique access to data from all units of local self-government on the one hand and to save in fact large funds for municipalities and cities on the other. Namely, if we know that there are over 550 units of local self-government there will be huge savings if not every unit of local self-government buys its software solution and then pays monthly maintenance of the system to display that data. There, even tens of millions of kuna can be saved. As for openness, I would refer to Article 4. The proposed law which states that citizens can directly participate in decision-making on local affairs through referendums and citizens' choirs, of course, in accordance with the law and statute of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. By prescribing a 20% census of the total number of voters, it is actually impossible to call a referendum on the opposition initiative. The same is happening in the case of an initiative of one-third of the council, as the initiative should then be confirmed by the representative body. So there's no way to call a referendum on the opposition initiative either. And I still have one answer to my colleagues who do not understand how the local sheriffs were named local sheriffs, and what bothers me most is that you have not touched the articles of the law which restore the importance and role of the representative body in the position in which that role was before the previous amendments to the law, i.e. before the adoption of so-called. "Lex Sheriff" version of the law. In fact, I'll remind you already, and I said in my replica, it's about that if you don't accept the budget for the election goes to the council, and the mayor doesn't go. So we have to change that. We must change the way and functioning of city councils and congregations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22756	Thank you very much. You have one replica from Mrs. Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22757	Dear counterpart Pavic, I think your initiative is truly commendable because that unique platform would allow all citizens to be easily searched for both the fourth and fifth levels of the budget if they were truly unique. The question is, i.e. it seems to me that you said that the state should finance this project. But then the savings would be huge, because the platform would be held together. So, state or local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22758	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22759	Here I am proud to say that in 2004 until 2006 I worked on a project called the local treasure house of the city of Zagreb, and there were other things I could say about transparency because these data that are still not available to citizens. Here after 16 years even though this system is still in operation for maybe another month, and then another system is purchased and my intensity was before when I had an impact on informing the body of the state administration that we actually have a central solution that would be installed in one place and accessible to all. It's about making central purchases, buying one system, being held in one place, on one server or on several servers. All local self-government units have access to these servers. They're leaving their data upstairs. All data are shown in the same way, and in fact we allow all citizens to look at these data as they wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22760	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Davor's turn to find.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22761	Here's the Honorable Chairman, dear fellow MPs, I must admit that I did expect something more ambitious to amend these laws. I was expecting perhaps a functional merger of inefficient municipalities. I was expecting maybe a merger of local utility companies to raise their efficiency. I was expecting maybe strong financial savings, but we got what's already mentioned several times today, cosmetics. Given the state of the public finances economy, I'd say it's about as if you're shutting down the fire with a bottle of water. I'd just like to remind you that this year the state is in a deficit of 30 billion kuna, and we're talking about savings from an alleged 100 million kuna that will ultimately never happen. Some would say, “the hills were shaking, the mouse was born. ” But there should be no point in these amendments to the law just to reduce the number of officials, but to make the entire local and regional self-government more efficient. It is not only a question of how many counties, cities and municipalities there are, but also how many people work there, how much they spend on wages and material expenditure on these jobs. That's not what we're touching here. We do not have to go further than the example of the City of Zagreb, which, for example, only for the expenses for employees is nearly 5 billion kuna. It should be borne in mind that these employees need to be provided in some cases and computers, cell phones, etc. So these are all costs that are accumulated, and for which it is not always sure that they are really necessary. Furthermore, at the very least, we are questioned in the Focus Party by the appointment of a deputy from the representative body. This is what we call a representative executive body, and it calls into question the electoral legitimacy of such a deputy. For this reason, and others listed on behalf of the Fokus party, I suggest that a deputy be retained in cities and municipalities below 35 thousand. But provided that all deputies at all levels are volunteers without compensation. The only exception would be if the leader was a volunteer, in which case a deputy could act professionally. So we are interested in financial savings and raising the efficiency and quality of services to citizens, not just the number of officials. In the way we propose, we would have less pay officials than according to the current proposal, and it would not happen that some leaders of their deputies should be escorted to the post of advisor or head of staff, nor that deputies from the representative body would be elected. As far as the transparency here is concerned, we would still like to see a slightly more concrete proposal than what is now mentioned. For example, to make it clear that it will be necessary to publish all contracts, orders and invoices regardless of the amount modelled in the City of St. Sunday, as well as some others who followed that example. This would be a real step towards transparency, and it should be kept in mind that transparency is not just transparency of finances. But we will wait to see how this will be defined through the Budget Law itself, as was previously said. For the above proposals that I have made here, I have also submitted amendments. Of course, it's up to the ruling to accept or reject them. But if they are rejected, of course, I will not be able to support the amendments to this Law as proposed. I would point out once again that this proposal to the deputy volunteers therefore means an even greater savings than the one which is defined by the current bill for reasons, because then those deputies who are now scheduled in cities of more than 35,000 inhabitants and in the counties would also be volunteers without compensation, while according to the current proposal, they could be professional in these duties. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22762	You have one replica of Mr. Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22763	Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22764	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22765	Respect. Dear fellow Find, for example, local committees do not have a function that objectively can have the same function as the city's wheels. They don't have decentralised assets in the range of which they can objectively have it. By redefining the number of units of local administrations and self-government and by giving greater authority to local committees and city cotters, both legally and those fiscal ones, the irrefutable fact of this number of units of local administration would be determined. Equally, city cotters that most often have more than 20 units of local administration are expensive, and their decentralised resources are not the following, in fact, an indication of the insane structure of the Republic of Croatia, and local committees and city cotters are those elected in the elections. If we start from this setting in the context of infrastructure concerns, we will again be clear that this number of units of local self-government exists so that someone will receive pay and do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22766	Thank you. Thank you. [[Intruder Kujundzic: And the same can be done without pay and through decentralised funds.]] Do I hear from you? Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22767	Thank you. Since the sound was a little blurry, I didn't hear it all very well. But I would point out that we are not against decentralisation. However, we are in favour of decentralisation we actually believe that the state should give up, the central state of most income in favour of units of local and regional (area) self-government. However, not in the way it is currently done to actually reward the worst ones. So you should simply where the value is created leave most of that value and thus all will be more motivated to make further efforts to make their municipalities, cities, counties as good as possible. However, we are also of the opinion that some clear criteria should be defined that all should meet in order to see which municipality makes sense, perhaps not so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22768	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Renata Sabelak Dračevac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22769	Here's the microphone. Dear Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues I will therefore try not to bother you with the content that has not been presented so far, but since this debate lasts for 8 hours, it is impossible to say anything more than these 111 pages that we have received from these amendments to the law. Of course, I still have some things to apostrophe. We all agree that this is about aesthetic changes to laws that are not essential, which are not not serious enough, and it's a shame to bring it six months before the local elections. You suggested that the number of councilmen would be reduced by 20%, and that's what we see now 10 even in some environments and less. It is amazing that employers will have to give permission to go to the council or the county assembly, and there will certainly be problems, and what is very problematic is that the candidate can run, so many times in a row, and it is about one civilizational achievement. Is there any state in which you can run for office more than twice? So it's about time we changed that. However, the thing that made me the most angry was that the citizens had to collect 20% of the signatures for the referendum, and at the same time the local powers could, without the council or the assembly, call the referendum. You must not forget, the power comes from the people and belongs to the people, and you are bringing us back to feudalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22770	You have, no, yes, one replica from Mr. Hajdukovic, Mr. Hajdukovic. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22771	Respect, respect, respect, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sablak Dračevac, you touched something I'd like to underline. I know from my own example a case where the employer is not going to believe a state institution. The state institution with which the council has to tend every time to get permission to attend council meetings, even when it requires unpaid ones to take an annual one, has to beg, it must literally not be sure that it will be able to attend the session. If I were naughty right now, I'd say it's because it doesn't belong to the right political option because you're going to guess who the leader is or from which option he's the head of that institution or business, and it doesn't belong to that institution or HDZ. And now you tell me how many similar cases we'll have when the existing law regulations don't comply with state institutions, and how will employers respect it when such regulations don't exist at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22772	Thank you. First of all, congratulations on cooking, Mr. Hajdukovic, in the back. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22773	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, I agree with you fellow, it's something that if we say this now and if this happens and it's entered into the law we'll be facing big problems for years, because watch out for different interests can be. They can only be political, and others can be. We know that councilmen must feel free to speak freely and to vote freely, and this is how they end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22774	Thank you, too, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's your turn, sir. Excuse me, Sanja Udovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22775	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here I am preparing for this debate carefully reading out a set of draft laws we are discussing today, and how I always do this I started from the starting points that we should be told why we are discussing right now and exactly these proposals. The ministry's assessment called for the government's programme, but what is not mentioned are documents the government has brought before, which are very much talking about local and regional self-government. And this is a public administration development strategy worth 880 million kuna financed by the EU with 85% of European funds. Then Action Plan 2017-2020 as well as document adopted by the government in April of this year, called the National Reform Programme 20-20. It's right in the national reform programme that you yourself say will be conducted for 12 to 18 months you've given yourself the following task of speaking of decentralisation. I quote: "The obstacle to further decentralisation is the insufficient capacity of local or regional self-government which results in a difference in the number and quality of public services provided. Local self-government units should have adequate administrative and financial capacities for quality and efficient provision of services under their law of the prescribed section. The ultimate objective is to increase the efficiency of performing operations in units of local or regional self-government, taking into account the uniform and even provision of services to citizens. In order to establish optimal local and regional self-government systems that need to be effective and effective, it is necessary to establish the existing capacities of local self-government units in order to then get a clear picture of their opportunities for providing public services. On the basis of these data pooled in the database, an analysis of the indicators for the assessment of the capacities necessary for the quality and efficient provision of services or the performance of operations under the law of the designated section of the units as well as for the performance of decentralised transactions from the competence of the central state administration will be carried out. On this basis, proper categorisation of units will be carried out in accordance with the determined capacities.” Now we are not discussing, what we have here today to discuss is fiscal and functional decentralisation or whether such a territorial structure is optimal, how many units of local self-government are able to provide public services for which they are legally and founded, and how to make public services even more accessible to citizens. This last one is one of the basic tasks of public administration regardless of the level. I'll be very specific, why would citizens by ID, driver's license, and others not come to their municipality, a city with a police officer or an officer who would take over some of the state administration's affairs? One part of local self-government certainly has knowledge, abilities and capacities to provide such services. Why do citizens today share Rijeka, Kastava, Klan and Vishkova wait for police intervention much more than ever? Why do they feel more insecure and have less and less trust in the police? Because today Rijeka and most of the river ring on the 100 thousand inhabitants have two police stations and both in Rijeka. From Rijeka to the Klan, for example, there is at least 20 minutes drive, too much for a quality and timely reaction in the event of a direct need. You have not specifically suggested anything about decentralisation and efficiency, improving the availability of public services, but you will present changes to the number of local officials in Europe as a major reform. But it is understandable to me, given what has been done so far, or rather ineffective, and to the amount that they have allocated to Croatia for the development of public administration. You've chosen a variant of form without fundamental reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22776	Thank you very much. It's a replica, you don't have a replica, that here, Boska Ban, Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22777	Dear colleagues regarding what you have mentioned about reducing the number of officials I am interested in can we expect an increase in the number of agency employees and state administrations related to HDZ deputies who will be jobless and can we expect them to be employed in the real sector?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22778	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22779	Here, I'd like to thank my colleagues for asking, so here I am now not dealing with some sort of assessment, I think it's a very quantifiable data. We will only have to wait for the annual accounts of the state budget, and we will also be able to read it in the budgets or annual accounts of units of local or regional self-government. We'll have to wait in '22, though. a year but then we will be able to see the number of employees or all of those employees of the agencies and other working bodies of the ministries, i.e. also in the local i.e.. regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22780	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn, I don't see him on the screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22781	I'm here, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22782	Here, you can start right now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22783	Thank you very much and thank you for your commendation for the background. Well, first of all, colleagues and colleagues, since I'm among the last speakers, I have to say that here in isolation I got a fever from the nonsense I listened to during the debate. And indeed, there was really a lot of nonsense here, we were at least talking about a constructive reform of local self-government, and most of all about some very personal and very subjective impressions that local self-government is or should be. Well, yeah, in a row. First of all, we heard about the justification for the existence of micro-munities and even thesis was brought here what our people would do if these municipalities didn't want to leave even more, I mean, I haven't heard more nonsense in a very long time. We must finally face the fact that our people are not leaving because of the absence of municipalities or the existence of municipalities, they are not leaving because of restored or unrenewed social homes, etc., they are leaving due to lack of perspective, lack of trust in institutions, lack of future, lack of planning and investment of strategic ones from the same mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors all the way to the government, so without strategic investment in their municipalities or units of local self-government, the opening of new jobs, etc. And it's hard, you'll agree, it's hardly the capacity to have municipalities of up to 1,000 people. And now let's demystify it again that the thesis that we're in favour of abolishing the municipalities. No, see how France has solved, for example, a problem that has very many municipalities, departments and similar set-up units for historical reasons, but most of them and most of the officials who exist in these units of local self-government are volunteers somewhere even part-time or honorable only ceremonially. It is very easy to encourage units of local self-government, municipalities to surround themselves, to have joint offices, to have joint municipal facilities, to perform together, so that the state can, say, sponsor some of the costs provided they are united, to round up, etc. We already have similar processes, let's say, when we talked about the system of tourist communities, however, for now we're just declarative, not formal unification, but let's get to it. Because here's a colleague who's just from Draž, so from Baranja, from Osijek-Baranja County, he was talking about his small municipality. To our small, relatively isolated municipality, when we look at the map of the Republic of Croatia and the fact that it could unite much more with the city of Beli Manastir and other Baranja municipalities. It's also the former community that used to be, but it made sense because of the municipalities and cities that gravitate the city. We heard some more nonsense, about how some suburban places would be much better if they were independent municipalities and so on. Maybe, but then they would pay their chief, deputy chiefs, councillors, so it's for one place out of some humble 5, 6 thousand people a lot, so the fact that they have to bear these salaries, look at the annual gross amount, but also, if you're not part of the city, if you're not part of the municipality, then there's no public transport under the same conditions as you have, if you're a suburban settlement, then there's not a whole series of other municipal services that that the city's being based on, existed and funded by that city. So in this case, it would remain, and I think that one good analysis would actually pay much more to stay within the city of Osijek than to stay outside of the city of Osijek, i.e. in a specific case, in Višnjevac after the analysis. Of course, micro management, so when we talk about our small municipalities, is not necessarily bad, but it's bad as it is, and in fact this whole infirmity and absurdity of the local self-government unit has shown both the coronary crisis and the first lockdown in which we were, when we saw, means when people were limited to the territory of their municipalities, that many municipalities do not have either a trade or a gas station or a pharmacy, so that people in the area of their municipality cannot meet even the basic needs of life, let alone then talk about administrative, technical, etc. So this is a disappointing fact that is now ahead of us and the elections are very soon, so I'd say it's about one popular measure, before someone really wants to get involved in reforming this system that's obviously proven to be in many ways and expensive and ineffective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22784	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. First replica, Mr. Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear representative Hajdukovic Domagoj, I don't know if you're in isolation, isolation or corona, sick, but here, perhaps this statement of yours, your address, could serve for scientific or medical purposes, apparently some new symptoms appear in individuals who are in isolation. Maybe that's how I see your public debate. And I'm just wondering, why don't you decide more on the side, a colleague on the left-hand side of the pay phone, whether you want to cut down on the number of municipalities or not? One struggles hard so that it never came out of your mouth that you are not to reduce the number of municipalities, and yet, now we hear you, so I don't even know now what actually is a colleague's position on the left-hand side of the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22786	Mr. Mandaric, on the basis of an article. I have to give you a heads-up on 238. For connecting this conversation with the disease. It's an insult though. That's what I estimate to be an insult. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for this intervention that I don't have to intervene or descend to that level, which, of course, I won't. Well, here you are, colleague Mandaric, if you've listened very carefully, and I believe it is, then you've heard that I've made a suggestion on how to do something. So it's not that I was just criticizing it to criticise it, I was suggesting it. The units of local self-government, or right now, this structure that we now have, needs one root and deep change. What I see now is just a cosmetic change which is the question in the end whether or not it will save something, but in order to approach one such extensive and rooted reform, we should have at least the beginning of the consensus, we should talk more, we should include all the actors, including the Croatian public, and then directly from the citizens and hear what they think and know what they think, not that we base our views on some subjective impressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22788	Thank you. Mr. Shashin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22789	Here, dear colleague Domagoj, you are a relatively young man and I am pleased, I am a little older unfortunately and I lived and worked in that time in the former Yugoslavia and I know what they were like when a municipality was only in Baranja, or Beli Manastir, and I know what our villages looked like in Baranja. Especially in my community, etc., which was, was a social home of some kind, and that was all. And also, I know very well what has now been invested in the post-war, that is, on our return to Baranja and over the past 10 years, and how much infrastructure has been built. If you don't believe me, you might want to take a walk, come, ride your bike to Batina, to Duboshevica, to Topuljski Dunavec, to see what is there only in tourist infrastructure made in the last 10 years. I don't think we'd talk like that. Get out of Osijek, come to Baranja, and you'll see what it looks like, and you'll talk a little too much then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22790	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22791	Thank you very much, Mr. Shashin. Well, I'm often in Baranja and in your community amongst other things, and I know very well, but here you are, defusing yourself now. Yeah, you say better social homes, better infrastructure, better getting better and the people are gone. And how come people were there in those ruins, and now they're not when everything is beautiful and beautiful. Don't try to convince me that the Draž Tourist Board can do better than the Baranja Tourist Board. If all the municipalities recognized it except Draž and Bilj, and Bilje still has some logic because Kopački butt is on their territory, then I really don't know, but I think it would, first of all, help its municipality through the tourist community to join the tourist community Baranja. In the end, what I've talked about 100 times, the state and the municipalities and towns and villages aren't buildings but people, and if we can't keep them, then they're a waste and a building and all the infrastructure and all the roads when no one can walk on them, no one will use them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22792	Mr. Shashin, I must give you a violation of the Rules of Procedure even though I don't see it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22793	It doesn't matter this one, but I really need to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22794	Yeah, well, the article, first the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22795	This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22796	238. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22797	This guy's denying himself because he just said that people aren't leaving these places because they're built or not built infrastructure, etc., but they're leaving for a whole other reason. And now you're saying that I'm misreading it or saying it wrong. Therefore, please. Be consistent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22798	Thank you, Mr. Shashin, for being a replica, yes. It's a warning. Mr. Charic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22799	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Hajdukovic, I do not agree with you that the municipalities should be abolished, but please, since I am Slavonac like you to list which municipalities in Osijek-Baranja County you would have abolished. [[I didn't give the answer, I didn't give the answer, did I?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22800	Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22801	Well, I really have to wonder if my relationship is the same as my colleague Kujundzic's because I don't know where I mentioned the removal of the municipalities. Did you hear me say that? So all I've mentioned is that we're not in favour of abolishing the municipalities. What I was talking about was how the municipalities circled. So now we have what we have, how municipalities encourage cooperation, how to optimise what citizens of the unit of local self-government get for as little money as possible, that it costs them less because we have to face the fact that most of our municipalities in Slavonia are not self-sustainable. So he can barely service the salaries of the commissioners and deputies, and then not talk about the municipal council, the municipal plant, etc., unlike the municipalities on the coast of the sea that have higher revenues because of tourism. So, we have to kind of jump into these challenges, and how I've given one idea that we can talk about, which is not an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22802	Thank you very much. Mr. Sinisha Jankach, the Yankee, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22803	Here's the esteemed vice president, the esteemed colleague, so here I was surprised that the vice president didn't give you a heads-up, given that you said on several occasions that there's some nonsense here, and here I won't be rude enough to return the same measure. But here's a recommendation if you think some municipalities need to be abolished or, say, as you'd like to say, connect, and the merger is a normal abolition. So here's what you're up for is the wax popula, so let the citizens' referendum tell them if they want to connect with someone, whether they want to quit. I'm sure everyone will say they don't want to because, as a colleague said in the '90s, they separated themselves from the big environments for exactly the reason they were underdeveloped, and the merger was. The merger of these municipalities and cities, as I said, is decided by the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22804	Mr. Yankee, you're somewhat right about me having tied hands if Mr. Hajdukovic or any of us don't refer to one person or two people, doesn't say some names I can't give a warning. But you're kind of right. The answer to the line, please, you can apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22805	Thank you very much. Well, look, I can hardly apologize when really that amount I've heard because I don't know how else to characterize it. And I'm telling you again, my colleague, as well as your predecessors, where I was talking about the merger and where I was talking about ending it. I was talking about the circle, the cooperation, the promotion of cooperation and the state subsidy of cooperation, which is something quite different. One way to achieve this is to do what you are trying to do with this law, which is to reduce the number of officials, but about it, at least those paid, but we should talk about it only when you have a wider picture and a wider goal and strategy, and that is what is most often missing from us, and that is what I most often repeat in my discussions. We're always sharpening the rye, and the rabbit's in the woods or we've got half a rabbit or we don't know where the rabbit is at all, but here's the fire. We need to approach things like this in the long run, and I don't think ad hoc changes are good, and this is ad hoc change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22806	Now it's on, we're done with the replicas, goodbye Mr. Hajdukovic. Mr. Tomislav Klaric is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22807	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs must really look back on this because Mr. Hajdukovic did not apologize for what he said, I understand him. I'm just going to remind, or call our colleagues from the SDP team who have called us here on many occasions tonight that we're talking about how they want to end something. You heard his performance before, it might be good to listen to what he was saying, but also those colleagues who had called us before, and I invite everyone together to read their program For a fresh start that's what it was called, point 11, where that's exactly what it says, the merger of the municipalities, so now I don't know who this guy is talking about. But we return to the topic of the Law on Local Self-Government where the direct choice for mayor and mayor was regulated when he eventually stopped existing the law where the mayor and mayor chose, the mayor of the municipality was elected by the council. At that time, the headship was abolished. The headship was a collective body and I personally passed both the one and the other regulations, and I believe that it was a useful and good body for the functioning of the local self-government unit itself. Here in this law is the suspension of deputy mayors for municipalities and cities from, up to 35,000 inhabitants and our party has submitted to this Amendment Bill and I believe that it will be adopted and that this figure will be dropped from 35 to 10 for a simple reason because it is simply normal in these circumstances and model of the functioning of the unit of local self-government. Here on several occasions there have been talks about some savings, and that part of the reduction in the number of employees in city and municipal administrations. I am now asking myself a common question in this part of the small units of local self-government, and we are witnessing that in the area of the unit, all of Croatia at this time and in coordination with this government and ministries, huge funds have been withdrawn from the European funds for various projects. So some municipality or city that has its original budget of 5, 6, 7 million kunas has attracted maybe 10, 11 million kunas to build some kindergarten, some kind of infrastructure, sewerage, water. Now I ask who did it? Is this volunteer proposed by colleague Hajdukovic? Can anyone expect from the suggestions we hear here that one of the volunteers, for example, will sign the situation of several million kunas of budget funds and bear responsibility for it and suffer the calling? And since I have a little time, that's where we heard Mrs. Oreshkovic in her performance and a lot of them talking about the sheriffs. This is where a colleague from the SDP talked about the sheriff's powers. I'm going back to that famous lex sheriff and that rhetoric. There are several individuals, but each of them has its own name and name. But I'm going to set an example that I mentioned in the replica. One of our fellow community chiefs who had been 6 mandates, who had done all the force of capital projects in his municipality after he had stopped being chief of staff, no longer ran. To ensure his existence, he had to buy a delivery vehicle and today he drives it because he has no income to survive. What kind of sheriff's powers are these? What kind of arrest was that according to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's rhetoric of all these mandates at the time? And he's not the only one. There's a lot of people like that. We remember our colleague Cain and those words, Stupido. Before he voted and raised his hand for the law that was abolished during the SDP government of that famous parliamentary pension, he set off his pension. And he called local sheriffs or chiefs, mayors of Istria as thieves, as criminals and everything else. And not just him, but the crowd here in this assembly. And then we wonder why the perception of our citizens is that of people who work responsibly in the field? Someone who receives this husband and his wife, a family of 60 million kunas from the state budget, tells someone that he's in love and that he's a lex sheriff. The man doing the work on the ground, blood-prepared projects, and with his signature, he's responsible for every budget lip.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22808	Thank you. You'll get a chance because you have a few replicas. There were two more replicas here, too. Mr. Bacic and Mr. Boric. The first is Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22809	I answered so that Clarice, who from my neighborhood, would give the opportunity to speak a little more. With only a few corrections to the allegations that are essentially not a fundamental fact is that the direct choice of mayors was made during HDZ and the abolition of the headship during the SDP. The County House of the Parliament was abolished during the SDP. Of course, some cuts have been made that show that something is rational today. And in the same period as HDZ and during this period as regards SDP, however, some of the things that were essential were brought in and someone who did not like them in the past, which were moves that meant something. And now let's do one thing right now. It's one thing to say that there's something more ridiculous in writing, and the other is to say for someone that he's a fool. No one here mentioned anyone in that section. Someone will say it's more written, and someone will say it's this or that's that, but there's no evil intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22810	Thank you, thank you. We got it. Thank you very much. Mr. Klaric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22811	Here's my thanks. He's a colleague from my county. You just said what I wanted to say and you still confirmed it. So the HDZ has passed a good law and a good thing. Direct choice of mayor. Each of the mayors, the mayor's name and last name stood before his citizens and got their trust. What the SDP did, and you said that the SDP did, did a bad thing. He's removed his headship. He removed a team that works and you didn't say it exactly because it's not true that it was then, but it was in a package of this law first. So, you're here wrong. In any case, the units of local self-government since the draft 93th of the first constitution calls to this day, look at their budgets back in the '90s, see today no matter how big or small. No matter how much progress Croatia has made, we are not talking about how many infrastructures and how many projects have been invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22812	Thank you. Time. Mrs. Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22813	Thank you. Here's your colleague talking about the team, and that's good. I see that the HDZ Club has also given an amendment to the government's proposal in the sense that deputies who will go to direct elections will also be able to choose meanings in local self-government units of 10,000 inhabitants. That's where you mentioned the cities I understood. I don't know why the difference between cities and municipalities is even set, given that there are also a series of laws that regulate local self-government and their detour. I'm going to point out that we have only 8 municipalities between 10,000 and 35,000 inhabitants and we're really going to have an absurd that the municipality that has so far had 2 deputies is actually going to be a municipality without even one deputy with a budget of 100 million kuna and has, say, 17,000 inhabitants. Maybe you'll correct that, and here's what we'll do with the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22814	Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22815	Well, there have been more amendments on the subject than I noticed today during the public debate and today's debate here in the assembly. And I believe that the government and the ministry will studyfully consider all this and make a decision that will be satisfactory for everyone. And what's more important here to emphasize, and I'm not under discussion, she said a story about the appointment of deputies in municipalities and cities where they won't be appointed. So there goes this part of the amendment that concerns that the elected chief, the mayor himself, will determine at the beginning of his term of office, or appoint the person who will change him during his long absence. And I think it's a good and quality solution given the powers, but also the responsibility most in the financial, fiscal sense of the mayor, as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22816	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22817	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I agree with your debate. What's clear is that we'll somehow have no deputies working and we'll find a way to have a person who can replace us. With a council that's smaller, it doesn't matter if we're going to get the budget by 5 out of 11, 5 out of 9 or 6 out of 11 etc. We can do that, too. But this debate went in that direction today that may not be part of this topic, but it prevailed. It means "resect." And we heard the Homeland Exclusion Movement. Sovereigns with two hands to abolish. Left green block anyway. The lady from the center, too. SDP to five o'clock to cancel, after five o'clock in the afternoon would or wouldn't. And now we have a situation that we've developed the debate no, but no one has the courage to say to the end that it's except HDZ, we said that we're against it and that this structure is good. We have to tell the citizens one more time. There's local elections coming, so let's keep an eye on what anyone's saying here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22818	Thank you, Mr. Boric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22819	And when they come to the list, let them make it clear why they did not want to vote for them, because they wanted to abolish the community in which they lived.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22820	Thank you. Mr. Klaric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22821	So here's what they called us all the time to call them. My colleague and I tried our best, so we went looking for this pre-election program of theirs, because we thought we got something wrong. In their program, in the 11th point, the program is probably called for their new beginning, it says exactly what they accused us of constantly passing on to them. So they wrote it themselves in the program. Mr. Hajdukovic has now confirmed it, and I don't think there's any more of that choir. They are for the abolition, i.e. merger, abolition or what they will call local self-government units. And I personally think, and I believe that it is bad for all of you, because the units of local self-government that were created in the 1990s are the ones most needed, or those in the biggest problems, have been through a bloody path during the Homeland War, destroyed, decommissioned, demographically destroyed, and their beginnings have been terribly difficult. And they're still treating those wounds today. And to think this way, to speak in this way especially to mention to Slavonia I think it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22822	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Klaric, the legislative framework under which the mayor, mayor and mayor are elected by a special election is not a potential source of corrupt acts by individual leaders greater than the legislative framework for which the mayor, the mayor and the mayor are elected from the representative body. Because the corruption of criminal acts was also in that model, so here it should be rejected. This is about a person's name and name who is prone to it or not. And as for our amendment, which we suggest to him that cities of more than 10,000 inhabitants also have two, that there are deputies that cannot be implemented at this time and for municipalities because this would include a very large number of articles in the law that are not covered by these amendments and additions. It is only possible if it is in compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when new changes are made that change I agree that this should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22824	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22825	Here's my thanks for the clarification. I believe that's what the government's obvious is. In this part when you mention this direct choice he never, nor did that previous law encourage corrupting actions. Corruptive actions always have a name and a last name, they have a person. But if in Croatia there is still any institution, any organisation that has more control, greater supervision than cities and municipalities in relation to state audits, tax administrations, all possible institutions and then most of all from citizens. It's cities and municipalities. And the only court of regularity between the mayors and the mayors and the city council and those who run the city are local elections. Local elections show strength, show strength to the good and show strength to the bad because they move it. So no one has more control than local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22826	Thank you, Mr. Claric. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Mandaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22827	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Three laws ahead of us today. Here's the whole day we've had a real opportunity to hear the opinions of fellow MPs on the left side of the pay phone, on the right side, from the middle of the video link where we actually cut it up like we said both along and across. But here I would like a few of my personal impressions and as far as the proposal is concerned, but also as I've heard through the debate. Unfortunately, I couldn't be here the whole time. We were on the Committee on Locals and Areas at the Thematic Session. But when I came back here, it immediately broke up a debate where my colleagues on the left-hand side of the SDP were trying hard to say that they were not for the removal of the municipalities. Well, here's a colleague of yours, Klaric, in a previous discussion, touched that program of yours. Well, it wasn't that long ago. It seems to me that this year there have been parliamentary elections, so we have made little effort in the program to start a new start of the Restart coalition but I have not printed it in color that we do not waste the necessary material resources of the Croatian Parliament. It's enough and black and white is visible. Clearly, in several places it says that at the initial stage we will propose a reduction in the number of units of local self-government and we will rationalise, and then we will say the launch of a process of territorial redecoration of local self-government with a significantly smaller number of units of local self-government. If there's any need, I can give you this copy. Now I don't know Mr. Grbin isn't here, I don't know Mr. Bauk you're the president of the club may be, here I am ready to give this copy of yours. So we remove it immediately who it is and who it isn't to reduce the number of municipalities. If one story tells for election purposes, is it nice to fall into the voter's ear, and then whoever turns the record later during the term and then conveniently tells what he thinks is more favourable to him at the moment. The relationship between the head of an individual unit of local or regional self-government and the representative body I think is well set up by the current law and it does not change too much. The electoral legitimacy of the leader is unquestioned, but I can't agree with him calling us sheriffs, because the sheriffs know what they were doing watching cowboy movies. On Saturday mornings, there's a cowboy every Saturday, so look. The sheriff is the one who arrested, the one who sued, the one who tried, the one who executed, the one who shut down. So, all in one and the head of local self-government isn't the one. The law makes clear the powers and responsibilities of the head of the representative body. In many places on the law prescribed and control mechanisms. And the political statements here for the Assembly speakers and in the media that throw an ugly picture at local self-government units and local officials, just support that story about the sheriffs who spend money unintendedly, illegally, not in accordance with the laws and as envisaged. They're just supporting that story about the local sheriffs. I'd just like to look back at the municipalities. There's a story going on in public, and we don't need small municipalities. We also had a chance to hear it here. So who's all these major projects and all these EU-wide projects have been realized. We like to boast that 500 kindergartens have been built or built by current EU funds. Of those 500, how many are built in cities, as in municipalities. On the example of the town of Đakov and Đakovština of our surrounding municipalities, a kindergarten is built from European means and in Satnica Đakovačka and in Punovci and in Gorjani and Semeljci, Strizivojna and in Đakov. We make six kindergartens. And that we're all one community like it was until '93. Djakovo would have had a kindergarten then. This is how we have six kindergartens. Huge benefits for local self-government units from European social funds. I'll remind you again of Project Wish. How many people are just socially involved through this project. Someone may be funny and banal, but a great project. How many people are employed. Women on the social side. Who wrote these projects again, designed, reported, implemented these projects? It's these communities that we somehow need to do something like this, or you need to hang them in public whenever you get a chance to do something like that. So the law is a step in the right direction, and in the future I hope that we will only further improve the system of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22828	Thank you, Mr. Mandaric. You have several replicas, actually two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22829	In the introduction of a new territorial structure since 1993, a large number of so-called Small municipalities took advantage of what they got. The independence of large municipalities because they had good leadership and a large number of major cities and municipalities remained on and stagnated because they had bad leadership. I believe that the number of municipalities is not a key factor in whether or not the environment will develop, but rather the leadership that leads to what you mentioned. What is a bigger problem is that such municipalities and cities are very often out of reach of the public, and then some perks in their own order of non-communities that bring small municipalities to a bad voice. And if we were to go according to the criteria of abolishing municipalities where the bad leaders are first, the city of Zagreb should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Almost everything you said can be signed, of course, so thank God we have elections every four years. We'll show up in front of people again for a year in May. He'll get a chance to assess who did good, who didn't, no problem. You said well because of individuals, because of a few of the leaders of the local self-government units, that fama is created by the sheriffs who are prone to corruption and criminal acts of various kinds. It has nothing to do with the size of a community, the size of a city. What small municipalities, cities, local self-government units need is additional financial empowerment in order to continue to be an engine, a generator of development and reconstruction of municipal infrastructure, social, cultural, sports and all kinds of renovations in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22832	Mr. Charic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22833	Dear Vice President, colleague Mandaric. Two years in my opinion are extremely important in the development of local self-government in '93. as my colleague Bauk said. That's what HDZ did, and the late President Tudjman made the kind of structure that we have today. And in 2018, when this government of Andreja Plenkovica and Minister Maric introduced the Harmonisation Fund, where we gave all small, large towns the opportunity to function, to work, to develop. And ultimately, what's most important to all those who talk about the abolition of the municipalities. Who gives us the right or any of us to decide on behalf of those people who live in Slavonia, Zagora, in areas where living hard is where living standards are very low who gives us the right to decide on their behalf? They're taxpayers and it's their money and they have the right to decide with that money the way they think they should.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22834	Thank you. You can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22835	: This for 2018 you are absolutely right. More than 2 billion kunas from that income tax balancing fund went to local self-government units below that average of development. In fact, this huge financial injection put the wind in the back and showed that it gave the cities and municipalities the opportunity to show all their potential and actually all the benefits of this local self-government system. He's looking forward to the 2021 budget. A year has an item of over 2 billion kuna for that very purpose. I don't need that as much as I can in the future and as long as possible. It's not enough for three or four years at this rate of development. That kind of development takes us years to catch up with the developed ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22836	Thank you very much. You're out. Thank you very much, Mr. Mandaric. We're moving on with individual debates. It's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22837	Here's the whole day we've been discussing the law mainly because of the election. I think this was brought to a shortcut. Why the shortcut? I'll say there's a lot of illogicality like the so-called. Lex Sheriff for Milan Bandic's past term and chips that were supposed to be filled because he couldn't have the coalition, and addiction in the parliament on most of them at the time was brought into the situation that we now have this law. Why am I saying this? We have meaning in Article 19 of this proposal. the applicable law of 43, which is complemented by one article, that the municipal chief and mayor no longer has the opportunity to perform the duties of mayors and mayors in cities and municipalities where there are no deputies to elect a representative body. And what kind of system is that now? Is this a direct dialing system or a semi-direct dialing system? There will be such cases, unfortunately, where mayors and mayors will essentially not give God because of the circumstances, but it happens where in the end the council will decide who will be instead of the mayor and the captain. That kind of illogicality is amazing. Incredibly, the mayors of more than 35,000 inhabitants will absolutely not have the opportunity, regardless of what the citizens directly gave support to the other political option, because whoever says these are separate elections. We choose the executive power of the mayor directly. The people give him the legitimacy of the direct choice, and the representative body who says it must be in the representative body the same political option as the executive authority. We have such examples today in Croatia. So it's so illogical that I can't understand that someone wrote it. I'm sorry he's not a minister here. I can't understand at all what it was done for, that you've mixed up representative authority and executive power, because it's chosen by the mayor directly. Directly. Not from the representative body. And in the event of prevention or not, I don't know what the mayor's representative body, which doesn't have to be an absolute electoral body that didn't give the trust, so I don't know any more with this law if we're choosing directly, indirectly, semi-directly, in terms of replacement. It was necessary to find some model that the mayor or the mayor who was directly elected to appoint him at the beginning of the term of office within a certain number of days appoints his deputy who has no one to change him, who will change him in circumstances. Whether it's going to be from the representative body of someone he determines or otherwise, and like this, you've simply knocked out pots. I mean, I'm saying this, I'm not politicizing. You know my position that I'm in favour of abolishing the county because local self-government simply depends on decentralised funds that are centralized by the mayors. Mayors, if different from mayors of other party cards, are being held back by projects. We have examples. I've listed them countless times, and that's my reason. But this is a serious thing where we put pots. You've confused everything and an executive who's elected directly and representative power. I've always been to the representative authority of councils and congregations be... with the mayor. [[You don't understand.]] I wasn't up for the council unless the budget went to the polls, and the mayor didn't go no matter who it was. I think the council must have its weight. But this is where it got mixed up. This article made a mistake. The representative body cannot determine to change the mayor in the event of any prevention and if a person gives up or if it happens for health reasons, I don't know what. So I don't know how the legislator thinks about it and confused it. Here, if you can explain to me why you pushed the pots? It's a very important thing. The other thing is that no one is against local self-government, even smaller ones. However, the fact is that today in the Republic of Croatia 40% of local self-government units do not have the power to organise financial capacity for one child for kindergarten. For one child and that's the problem. I don't speak, I can mention to you the community of citizens where HDZ and the SDSS are in power of 200 people. When... said this, this way of governance and how they manage, how they change and what they do does nothing contributes to these people, to Serbian nationality, to national minorities, and to Croats in the area. [[You don't understand.]] So you have to look much wider at this story, and you've screwed up everything alive with this law, and you've brought into question the legality and constitutionality of these choices because of the representative body and what you've been pushing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22838	Excuse me. I was wrong. I gave you 10 seconds more, but stay here, please, because Mr. Bacic has the first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Meanwhile, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community has proposed an amendment, you probably haven't seen it yet, according to which exactly what you said to the future mayor, the mayor and mayor at the beginning of the term of office will appoint one of the members of the representative body who will then, in the event of prevention, disable it, carry out the office of mayor until he or the mayor or mayor returns to work and retake the post. Here's what you'd say, given that you're opposed and that you're looking for the abolition of the county is the possibility of being mayor for a certain time if you say Mr. Boban, the future mayor of Split-Dalmatia to you as the future councilman of the Split-Dalmatia County to give authority to change him in the event of his prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22840	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22841	I'll be on my way. I was running for mayor, to be the last mayor of Split-Dalmatia County, and I believe there will be a change and that soon it will happen to be one of the last mayors of Split-Dalmatia County. And you know I got a good result, that I was down there alone and you know you were in a panic. You all know it well. But here I was just this morning talking about what you said about the amendment and what's more important. So the amendment you've given me is in agreement with that amendment. For what? Because everything else that's written by the legislator is a disaster. You've made such a mess, that I'm just this morning, even this morning, here's the sign, I didn't hand it over, I didn't want to get involved because I can't support this, the amendment of this law. But it's such a mess from "lex sheriff" to this whole story you've just made, you don't know who the deputy is. So you can see that this was accelerated. This was supposed to go in two readings long before, not half a year before the election. As for the mayor, the mayor may be a little afraid of the room and prepare to leave. In Split-Dalmatia County, we have a man ready to take over the Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22842	Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22843	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, colleague Bulj. I would still like the Croatian public to hear your comment. Here in this honorable House we heard today people say that 27 years on the head of a municipality isn't much. What logic tells me is that every water if it doesn't move and if it's actually shorter time it's standing up and it's soon ringing, it's dying of life, so I'm wondering if you might think we should pass a law for example, so what I know as a pope. We pick him to death. You're right if we're still in some democracy that you say you've had enough, but since it's not enough to be nice to death. Then when you die, the party chooses someone else, the people choose you, the party sets you up, and you're dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22844	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22845	Well, I'd say there's a chief in my area who's from the community. Otherwise, it's called the best way to live, but when you see demographic indicators in this area, it's the most eviction. So longevity, for example, is the longest mayor in the Croats. But it's the biggest demographic fall. So we have this problem, look simply through social aid, through pre-election asphaltation that essentially brings nothing new, but these are asphalting where you see election cycles exactly. So to take out in these municipalities where long-term mayors would exactly see on the sample when they were parliamentary, local, presidential, European, which elections. I've been through it all. And basically it doesn't give new jobs except for which renewed legpost that... The bodies, so that they became too dependent on the chief and he benefits it well and these are major problems of longevity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of mandates should be limited. I think the Tribal would also limit this law to a certain number of years, to a certain number of terms of office for mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22846	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Sinisha Yankee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22847	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the new Law on Local Self-Government we've been discussing today. There's good stuff, there's a little less good stuff, but these things are gonna get better eventually, and here's the interesting thing about a lot of changing laws on local self-government. Somehow this local self-government comes first, and here might be the time, and it's visible from this debate that we're discussing something else more. 'Cause here's what we heard from our colleagues, and I'm going to do it again and maybe talk to my colleague Bull at first, so here's no one, i.e. It wasn't the man himself who was chosen five, six, seven, and I chose twenty times. He was elected by the citizens. That's number one. So every head of local self-government is elected, and this is a good law chosen directly, so it's chosen by the will of the citizens. And as many times as he's chosen, he's chosen by the will of the citizens again, and I don't think there's a better way than that. What I'd like to say anyway, and my predecessors said too, but I have to repeat, and that's what cities and municipalities represent. What do these mayors and mayors in their cities and municipalities do, and what do these mayors and mayors care about in their cities and municipalities? About everything. Absolutely about everything. So there's no thing going on in that community, that city that doesn't go through the hands of that mayor and mayor. And the smaller this community and the smaller the city, the more he has to do because he has fewer associates, less headmasters. Most of them are unique administrative departments, and this man, along with his supervisor, must be the head of the maltene, because he must know about all the laws, about getting, about all the things he has to do in order to do anything at all. Who are our citizens coming to? Here I can say that our citizens don't primarily come to the minister, they don't come to the prime minister, they don't come to the president, they don't come to the mayor, they don't come to the mayor, they don't come to the MPs except for those who might give their time and on the ground, and I congratulate the team. But they come 100 percent to their mayors and mayors and ask them to solve their life problems. So, the mayors and mayors, I speak from personal experience as mayor of the city of New Marof, who has 13 and a half thousand residents, who have only 14 employees, not 140 or 130 as some of the cities of some of the towns that are not there. But here I know they fought for executive power at state level, so they had 100 and I don't know three or 104 employees, and they have 16,000 residents. I can talk briefly about my new Marof. I can say that it is the largest area in Varazdinska, Krapina-Zagorska and Međimurje County. So, the largest per area in the third constituency, that we have over 600 km of unclassified roads, no county roads and state roads. I don't count that, just unclassified roads. Here we have only 14 employees who solve citizens' problems and that we have no professional deputies, we have never had them and that here's an example for the sake of holding city council meetings in the afternoon when all those who are employed can come without problems at five, six o'clock on the city council. Well, maybe it should be a message to some other colleagues, and I think it's a good model that all those who are employed can be present at city and municipal council meetings without being so defined in this law. What is definitely important and what is important to emphasise and what I said that citizens' problems do not solve either those of Croatian Roads or Croatian Waters etc. than all citizens' problems are being solved locally and I'm sorry to be called local sheriffs. If someone's wrong and he's wrong, let them be prosecuted for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22848	Thank you. You have several replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22849	Dear colleague, I'm not sure if I understood you correctly, but you said that the smaller the municipality, the more the chief has to do. Well, that's shocking. In fact, I'd say those who have too much to do are poorly organized. So God can work 24 hours a day, Bandic 20, and the rest of us mortals 16. We can't do any more than that. It's just like that. So it's not the best argument you've ever made. The roles of unit leaders of local self-government are different where he personally knows all his voters, but then approaches them differently in local elections. And where there's the only way, where there's a large unit of local self-government where it's only possible through the media. And that's how they work differently. So I attended once when there was a debate about the height of the sidewalk, it has nothing to do with ideological definitions, but they do, they personally know people and they have to contact them personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22850	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22851	Well, clearly, here's a partial answer. Normally, it is not easy to communicate with citizens who are coming with their problems, and these are the officers who do not have hundreds of employees in municipalities and cities who have to solve the problems of their citizens and are therefore elected there and that is why people have given them their trust. However, I am still standing by what I said, that in small municipalities the smaller town, which is the smaller community these fellow citizens must be cards for everything and can't and don't often rely on anyone as they may have might rely on me in some larger cities or colleagues in much larger cities, which doesn't mean that if you're in a big city that you don't work. However, as you said yourself, so are some other correlations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22852	Mr. Charic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22853	Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Yankee. I agree with this claim from you that it is true that the smaller the municipalities that people have to, that is, the leaders have to do more. I'll take an example, can you hear me, colleague Bauk? You hear me? I'll take an example of the Bosniak municipality, not a man from my party, not from the HDZ, but from the HSS, a really valuable man, works a lot, works great, works great projects for his municipality. And to you, Mr. Bauk, and to all of you who would cut off the municipalities and the cities, I command. Look, I'm in the seventh term mayor. I live in a place of 6300 inhabitants, I'll run for the eighth time, and I'll tell you what, and you all run for office, so see how much you're worth in your midst. And remember, the smaller the middle of the harder trust you get.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22854	Here's what I'm going to agree with you, colleague Saric, absolutely not because we're from the same political option, but because on the ground we're going through everything you said and we know what we're talking about. I would like as you invited all our colleagues who think differently to run for executive office in the upcoming elections, let them win and let them taste that sheriffing in municipalities and cities. And here's to the end, of course I'd mention it anyway, and you said that fiscal and financial decentralisation that this government has brought in after 30 years. We kept comparing the northerners with Slovenia, saying we should look west. For the first time, we can look west, and right now these small-town commissioners have decentralised income tax assets and can work more, better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22855	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22856	Comrade, it is unquestionable that the mayors directly elected have the support of the people and we cannot influence it. We can disagree with them or agree with them, but they are chosen by the will of the majority. However, you set your example. I don't know, the people will judge you in the next local elections. You gave a good election speech now, you gave a good election speech before the local elections. Now whether the people reward you or not, whether it's all true or not, I can't judge. Let the people of your city judge. However, when we observe that we have more municipalities and cities than the United States or China of Local Self-Government, then the question is, is it necessary in this way to organise it? I'm not saying smaller municipalities shouldn't have financial resources. However, should they have so many employees and everything that goes along with it and representative bodies it is now a question for all of us Should Croatia have as many municipalities and cities as China and the United States combined? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22857	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22858	So whether something should be or shouldn't be done again was ultimately the will of the citizens. As I recall, and as much as I like to follow history, we remember that it was mentioned here in the '93s when mass citizens sought the establishment of municipalities and cities. So, the citizens were looking for the establishment of municipalities and cities. The territorial structure that was then passed was absolutely supported by citizens. And I'm stressing again and I answered and replicated Mr. Hajdovic. Some citizens of wax popula say whether they want to abolish their community and whether they want to connect it to someone else. Who are we here to decide that we impose upon them and to in some way restrict them in any way whether they want to live and how they want to live and how they want to function in their community?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22859	Thank you very much. You're free to go. Now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just a moment so I can see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22860	My colleague hurt Rule 238 because he said who we are here to decide. So you will pass this law. Have you asked the people if there should be such a law? So you're the parliamentary representative who supports this, and Croatia has more, I repeat local self-government than China, the United States and the former Soviet Union has local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22861	That was a replica? You're just going to replica? ... What about the Bauku replica? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Bauku before he started talking? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll ignore this now. Let's move on. And here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Says the old folk proverb – the morning is smarter than the evening. Now, in this law, the other night is smarter than the morning, because the amendments to the HDZ Club are a little bit fixed. I see you've taken me seriously when I was worried about the tsunamis of HDZ officials of former deputies, so you've made it a little easier for me, which isn't bad from this pandemic aspect that I mentioned. And that's when I thought I'd start the shock and the infidelity again. A fellow Yankee said, so I wanted to check in the replica to see if I understood correctly, I guess I did, that the much bigger job of the chief in the smaller environments than in the larger environments. So then you should have suggested that these up to a thousand residents have two deputies, these up to 10,000 deputies, and these over 10,000 have no deputies, if that's the case. Because I'm looking here now that you've said it I've watched Boric several hundred inhabitants, Klaric several thousand inhabitants. Mr. Krstulovic froze his mandate because he has a city of 150 or 200 thousand inhabitants. Looks like it's the other way around. It's not like that. So, as far as this law is concerned, he's had several serious problems that have been tempered. This about replacing the Commissioner who was temporarily disabled is a better solution to be appointed this way by him on a council proposal, I mean someone from the council. But I think I even mentioned it on the Constitution committee. The part about the restrictions on the number of deputies is important, and it doesn't matter. Because those deputies will be taken care of somewhere. So that's the thing with these directors and assistants, etc. So what's serious is this provision on councilmen who have to negotiate with the employer to let them go to the council meeting. So, they've normally agreed so far, and these others have been causing problems, but the elected councilmen could say I have the right to an unpaid leave and you can't forbid me to come to a council meeting, and now it's going to be a little harder. And I really think it's an unnecessary intervention in the text of the law. I understand the position of the government that these in Brussels expect some kind of reform, so they will present here we have reduced the number of officials by several hundred minus 40. So it's getting more or less understandable. The proposal is insufficiently ambitious in terms of reforming local self-government not only because of this part of geometrical, so that the borders of municipalities, etc., but especially this functional. Therefore, in the Public Administration Development Strategy adopted in 2015 but this government has also implemented and has not changed it, among other things, functional things are listed. So, powers and things like that. and it would be good to submit a three-year report to the Croatian Parliament based on measure 20. The SDP Club has therefore proposed that the Government undertake to submit a report on the implementation of the 2018 Strategy within 90 days. - 2020. So, just by the end of the 3rd month, according to Parliament's decision, that would be good. Then it's an opportunity to discuss the local self-government system. Otherwise, there's no big philosophy here. We have a current system where we have a large number of units of local self-government, some of which are large, and some of them are less functioning as well. Some good, some bad depends primarily on leadership, and less on architecture because we have more developed countries that have a more subtle territorial structure than we do and we have less developed countries that have a more circular territorial structure in us. What is a bigger problem of functioning is insufficient public exposure. Because of such a large number, all kinds of things happen under the radar that are then thrown and shadowed into the entire structure. Of course, it's possible to create a structure that looks like the one until '93. So with 100 and some units of local self-government on condition that they have the authority of today's counties, and that the units below them have the authority that the municipalities have today. Whether it would be called a municipality or it would be called a local committee, local self-government, etc., it's a thing called, but the stage is power. So if we had, if we had crowned the municipalities and left them with these powers that they now have, it would be completely unnecessary, and also if we rounded them up, and gave them greater powers, and left at the lowest level what should be closest to the citizens it wouldn't change much in this system. It is therefore a good topic when it begins to talk superficially, but when concrete questions come up, it is very difficult to find a solution that is functional for all time so that it will always be a topic of debate. Thank you, sir. Vice President. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22863	Mr. Zekanovic has been looking for a replica before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22864	Dear colleague Bauk, I would like to hear your comment on the statements here are some colleagues in the assembly that we should ask the population of some municipalities whether it will be shut down or not. Well, I don't think there are any municipalities in Croatia that would agree to that. You tell me one of the municipalities where the population in the referendum would vote to shut down and I will immediately say it's a miracle because it simply can't happen. On the other hand, I think you've forgotten that this particular body, this body makes laws, and we determine where the municipalities will be, how many there will be, how many inhabitants, where there will be limits. So I think you're wrong, you turned that story around a little bit. If you asked today I don't know how many Croatian Post workers should be on the counter they would say there should be 50 even though there is one transaction a day, but there is a Croatian Post Office saying there should be one employee not 50. Here's a little bit of your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22865	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22866	Okay, that'd be a little more complicated, 'cause then this neighbor should be asking if you're here to get these guys to join you. Now, that would be an interesting debate. The referendum is one of the ways of passing laws under our Constitution and it is possible to bring the Law on the areas of municipalities, cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia to a referendum, it is theoretically possible. Therefore, that question would probably seem to put some kind of law entirely on the referendum, and if it was passed in a referendum according to the Constitution, it would be implemented, if not, no. And the rest is an advisory referendum, and then a certain conclusion can be drawn on that. I'd like to have such a referendum on my island if you'd like to stay this way or be one of the municipalities. on our island well. [[Intruder: On our island.]] So if it were to be spent and okay, I'd be among those who would vote to be one, but I wouldn't be very upset if it stayed like this. So, the people decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22867	Here you go, Mr. Bacic. Mr. Bacic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have been in this business for a long time, I was chief of staff, in that first session of 1993, and otherwise a change in territorial structure should mean the attached opinion of the people whose status has changed, that is, and today should be a rule that does not oblige the legislator, but it is a very clear message to the wise legislator. As for the little chief or chief of the small municipality, that he is Katica for all, perhaps he has no business how much the mayor of the big city has, but he deals with all the spectrum of jobs that can appear for reasons that there are neither washed.../incomprehensible/... nor any of the employees. And the third thing you asked me was that of the deputy chief of the municipality over 10,000 inhabitants. When the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, the first law in Croatia in 1992 is every place that had more than 10,000 inhabitants. was declared a city, because the municipality of Viskovo, Viskovo fell out of it I really don't know. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22869	Thank you. Mr. Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22870	Well, it turned out by moving in, I mean, it's not much of a philosophy, but okay. So, as far as getting an opinion, I just answered Mr. Zekanovic. That it is possible in a referendum to obtain the opinion of the population, of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia when voting on the whole of the law, it is constitutional, legal and logical, if any government dares to do so either by signatures, however you wish. As for this experience, I recall a little, so my first function was a member of the headship of the Municipality of Pussic in '97. And I was a councilman in '99. and Council of the County Assembly 2017. So, I've been through a whole, whole, whole structure, I come from a small municipality, from the big island of the biggest county of this, and I've been acting on various duties in various bodies so I think I can objectively, objectively look at it. I'm not into cheerleading access, and it's not the small municipalities that are to blame for everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22871	Thank you very much. Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22872	Here, Mr. Bauk, you're skillful in words, so you can twist this likable and turn the situation to your advantage, normally because we're here in the assembly room. Well, I'm glad to hear that you've been through one of these representative bodies, so you've been a member of the representative body, so all you have to do is run for mayor and mayor and you'll have a whole range of experience. I'm calling on all my colleagues, and I'm glad to see here on the right a part of my colleagues who have passed a whole spectrum of councilmen, chiefs, commissioners and mayors, and they're thinking in one way. Maybe on your side, here's something less of such colleagues and colleagues, so here I call on them to run anyway, to be eventually elected, and then perhaps from a different spectrum they'll think about the values of the mayor and mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22873	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22874	Thank you. I have no intention of writing a scientific paper just so I have to act on this duty. In the second half of my political career, I'm going to think about various functions so you don't have to worry about this, but I was running for mayor. So I promised and all that I listed there is both current and today, so we don't have anywhere to take care of waste, we don't manage the coast, the issue of education that's in the jurisdiction of the county is also questionable, and as far as the community is concerned, but I don't have to say here. I mean, there are other functions I haven't run for, there's another 30 years younger than Joe Biden, that's right. Thank you, I thank you. Here I am waiting for Milanovic to perform his second term, so maybe who knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22875	And I expect you to become the deputy of Trump. Here you go, Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22876	Here's to bring in a little more fun around Article 9, I'm very interested in whether someone who chairs the representative body of a local or regional self-government unit is going to find out if a member of the representative body has reached an agreement with the employer. Imaginary said someone who is not a state official, and works in the government de facto I should have knowledge of the prime minister specifically from Mr Plenkovic whether he released an employee in the government who is therefore not an official so that he could attend a session of, say, the city council or the county or county assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22877	Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22878	So now, if that councilman is your key or your advantage, then you will surely know because he will call you either to let him go, whether he is not if you are president, and I suppose then you belong to the parliamentary majority which can, of course, be one political instrument so that no decision can be made, some budget not to be made, etc., and indeed it is one of the weakest parts of this proposal. And as for the amendments to the HDZ Club, it will be interesting, in fact, that is the fate of those who propose something when the party orders them to all the things that have rejected our proposals in consultation with the interested public now have to say the amendment of the HDZ Club which we otherwise refused to consult with the interested public, but good fate is fate. Therefore, there will be various situations with these employers. I think that, that maybe it will question the constitutionality of that very provision, I think, should be, but good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22879	The replica of Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22880	: Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, in your individual debate, you pointed to some important things. So we have amendments and additions to the 3 laws and it seems to me, and I'm also interested in your opinion that a semi-product has come before us. This is based on the fact that what the promoter did not want to discuss with the interested public at all or consider at all will now have to consider because an amendment to the HDZ Club has come. So we have a bill of law and then the HDZ Club which is, of course, the ruling club gives itself an amendment. And as for the relationship between employers and the representative body, it will be very, very interesting. So it is under way, among other things, parallel with the assembly and session of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, lasts all day, lasts all day today and will last tomorrow, and this will be very interesting to see what will and how it will work in the future. Well, we've already had some experience. and, on the basis of these experiences, amendments and additions to the law should be adopted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22881	Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22882	It's a good thing that most of my well-intentioned proposals have not yet been accepted, but there is still time to discuss, until the end of the debate, to accept that part. So it is essential that if there is a possibility of an agreement with the employer ok, but the law is not always written for ideal situations. So, there are situations where someone gets stuck and says they can't, I don't know, it's possible that sometimes a company does business with a community and this one's from the opposition, and now the chief's going to say, and look, if you let this guy on the council think when next time he's going to get, I don't know the asphalting or anything. It would be better to avoid such situations, and here I really think that people who have experience in local self-government should still suggest to their ministry colleagues that they fix it a little bit. And the explanation of what Article 31 says is logical, so the explanation is good, and the text of the law itself is not good. FURIO RADIN:
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22883	Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Do you not think that it is a little underestimating attitude of a fellow Yankee who is so casually speaking about the experience from the local self-government on the left hand side of the assembly, and it is obvious that he does not know about your experience and my experience but also the experience of many other colleagues and colleagues who have passed the vertical of local self-government, not necessarily always in executive places, and sometimes in executive places that are not mayors and mayors. That's one thing. The second thing is the existing law, in the current law in application there were many difficulties because I know several examples, and it is the employer who is a state or state firm, an institution, when they did not want to let certain council members or council members into the meetings of representative bodies, and it always demanded special negotiations with the manager, the application, even taking vacations because otherwise it could not. So if we've had problems with the existing legal provision like this, if there's any old problems we can still have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22886	As for the second part of your question, the changes, the repairs of that provision that was concerned should go in the direction of facilitating the position of the councilman, and the position of the employer a little lower. So, if it is an employer that is not engaged, that does not deal with politics in a way that really affects the will of citizens. And as for this first one you asked, fellow Yankee, since he praised me for being skilled in this rhetorical has a discount at the beginning, but if he repeats it then we will, then we will react to this underpriced behavior. I believe he didn't know, and I almost forgot about my initial work on local self-government. So this one, so here you have a discount from a fellow Yankee, but no more of these kicks as underestimating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22887	... You've been free before, haven't you? [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. Ante Kujundzic will speak finally on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So by reading the amendments to the proposed laws and listening to the whole day's debate, arguments and everything most of them show, the eternal possibly human, this earth's struggle, the evidence of ourselves and the politics that we belong to as our own kind of form... our everyday lives and us individually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even a little childish, logical, and certainly not the one we're here for. What we are here for in this sacred home that has long ceased to be is certainly not a hidden dungeon of some apparent infinity and self-evidentity, we are here to create a better Croatia, a fairer Croatia in which man lives and works with life... Man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia, which is not tired and sucked to the last drop of blood, is Croatia's clear, happy and playful. Croatia can be like this if we want to, and if we get rid of some chains, oblivion, man on the street and his fears, desires and hopes. It is fairer in fact, and fairer laws that Croatia will again make to the Croatian pride and remnants and laws that are in the service of man beside us, and not of interest but a long-unargumented pack policy in which the rest of the argument has become a mystery of which no reality can be seen. The laws that are wind in the sails, not the jagged rope that has tied hands and legs leaving Croatia in the mud, and can be the purest and brightest. Unfortunately, the amendments to this law show that Croatia will still wait for Croatia's desired and hopes created, fairer and better for life. Instead of repetitive articles and articles of this law, it would actually be fairer to speak with an understandable existential language, a language to a reasonable daily man in which he creates more and gives than he really does back from that same state and gets. So what does a Croatian man need to know and understand when it comes to amending the Law on Local and Regional Administration and Self-Government proposed by this Government? The man next to us does not understand the fact that the main culprit of modest life in Croatia, in which each individual turns twice in his hand before he spends exactly this kind of territorial structure with a huge number of waterways that need to ensure the ease of life in drunk Croatia that does not change these changes. The second thing, from the planned savings these changes will lead to, that same man on the street to us, who we meet, not on his... the skin feels that living better and without... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] in the living room. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this same man needs to know more important facts. For example, for changes that would make his life better, it doesn't take much, it just takes a little political selflessness and real desires and feelings for that same man. That's all it takes. But these changes are not the case, and ultimately this same man does not realize that this kind of policy does not care about him, does not care about the people, so he does not care about the smiling, carefree and happy Croatia. Well, this same Croatian man doesn't realize that all the hopes and desires he has summed up in that circle in the politics election are nothing more than a numerical trace of a pen and in such a misunderstanding that same man again or chooses the same policy or stays home. And by the order of words, the Bridge will not support this or any future law that makes life of a man in Croatia any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22889	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Marko Milanović litre will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22890	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear secretary of state, dear colleagues and colleagues. [[Intruder: Croatian sovereigns, I apologize.]] The amendments to the laws we discussed today were presented as a reform of local self-government that should save Croatian citizens 100 million kuna per year. But soon the analysis came out saying that this figure was nowhere near. These analyses talk about saving 30 million kunas, which is commendable, and that's a number you don't need to be ashamed of. But it's a question of whether they'll be saved by this kind of reform at all. Croatian sovereigns support every saved kuna of taxpayers by state and state institutions. In times of uncertain economic and economic fate, we must be responsible for our fellow citizens, in spending their money. Especially in times of recession where we are. If we look further at the catastrophic state of private entrepreneurship and the economy, then it is clear that we must look for savings at all levels of state service. But these savings must be transparent and clear, which they certainly are not with this reform. If the plan is for all those who were deputy mayors, mayors or mayors to be transferred to another position within the local self-government, such as the headship or advisers, then the planned savings of this reform will depend solely on the well-willedness of local powers, or their resourcefulness, ingenuity and creativity. Then such a proposed reform will have absolutely no effect. If we look at these amendments and the additions presented today, we can see that mayors and mayors will be able to appoint their advisers without any fee restrictions, which will allow local sheriffs to buy advisers, or political opponents who will be at their service, and all of this will be paid with taxpayers' money. We witnessed such examples. Let us remember the Vukovar Mayor Saba or political trade in Sisak between the two world-famous political options. This is a reform that will welcome such and those with open arms. After this reform, they will only have the sky as a limit. So far, we have witnessed the purchase of tons and tons of cooking, prosciutto, perfume, women's purses, pumpkins, wine, gifts and who knows what else. There were also purchases of 450,000 kuna municipal cars with a minimum of 200 horses, which, according to some, every chief should have in his fleet of municipalities because our fellow citizens don't need kindergartens, schools, playgrounds, lighting, no-gosts, no, they need their chief to drive a car of 200 horses because they still need to come from one end of the village to the other. It would be a shame to drive in a car that has fewer horses than it has its population. Such a reform degrades the legislative authority by defining the compensation to the presidents, vice-presidents and councilors. Croatian sovereigns want to share the fate of their fellow citizens, so we appeal to the ruling to consider and adopt our amendments that would reduce the fees for council members and increase compared to the average Croatian salary. We believe that such reforms are another in a series of evidence of the lack of will and courage of the ruling to solve once and for all the problems of local self-government, starting with the biggest problem, which is too many municipalities that cannot function on their own and which are their own purpose, themselves and the large parties who thus provide their army of obedients. And on that very trail is another key flaw in this reform, which is to reduce the number of council members by councils and local self-government assemblies, which is justified by savings, and in fact goes exclusively to the political benefit of large parties. The number of votes needed to enter one of the representative bodies will be increased and will result in large parties benefiting from the resolution of a part of their opposition. These amendments to the law will enable local powermakers of certain municipalities and cities to have absolute power in their councils and congregations, and democratic processes in local communities will be disrupted. After a while, it will be quite clear that these amendments to the law will bring Croatia's policy closer to the bilateral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22891	Thank you, too. And now it is up to Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic, who will speak finally in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22892	The Honorable President, fellow MPs and MPs at one point seem to me that's exactly what you said that we had moved away from the topic, that we were at least talking about a package of laws proposed by the government and more about everything else. It just shows that the laws are referred to the procedure insufficiently prepared, that these laws don't hear or listen to what they really need and what our citizens are looking for, which requires an economy, which has been calling for years. We are all particularly from the opposition, although in different ways, in different contexts we have talked about the necessity of carrying out territorial reform, territorial reconstruction regardless of what we have different visions and models that it should look like. And the fact is that for more than 10 years, our prominent legal and other public administration and administrative experts have produced all the completed analyses and projections, a detailed plan so that this reform and public administration and territorial reconstruction should be implemented. But there are no politicians who, for their words, we have no hearing. And that reminds me of this situation with fired scientists in this pandemic of the coronary virus. A state that does not listen to the profession, a state that does not respect those who have knowledge and experience and who would have something to say about certain topics, is in which the public interest is humiliated. And this today, this debate on these laws, and it is clear that we should talk about the need for territorial reconstruction is also one image, one humiliated Croatian. Humiliated and dismayed as it is in its own dictionary when speaking to me mentioning diapers often stands out Branko Bačić. And I hope that we will change that trend and that direction and expect a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There are several topics that this debate should have covered, and unfortunately not. For example, we should have mentioned that 10 years ago the Constitutional Court said something about whether our electoral units were not constitutional because they were not following a line of county and territorial reconstruction, so we also had to link this topic to the need for reviewing whether the results of the elections were sufficiently constitutional and indeed the more we had a large wave of emigration in the last few years, whether we in all areas of the Republic have the same weight of each election vote. We also haven't talked about the problem arising from the dual mandates. The fact that we have a large number of mayors and municipal commissioners who are also parliamentary representatives. So whether it's the best solution, or it's about time that something changes. We haven't actually talked about what local self-government needs to serve. It is not for you who receive terms of 5, 6, 7 in a row, but it is for citizens at local level to get a higher quality of public services, and we know from the experience that it is growing from year to year. Many, not in this debate, but in many others mentioned that we need Croatia two zeros, that we need a new republic, so Croatia two zeros and a new republic will begin the moment when we take seriously the reform of territorial reconstruction. And as the closing word gives the opportunity to sublime in some way everything discussed then I will also touch some of the things that had a very personal sound and I have been quite personally apostrophe during today's afternoon, they have mentioned some fictitious mandates, a fictitious party, and I responsibly argue that there is nothing fictitious in the way that I won my mandate or my political party. In any case, it is a victory chosen by the trust of citizens and voters and by not double-tailing their tails just in order to conform to those who, there, need a few more hands to preserve their corrupt majority. What can possibly be fictitious, can be a fictitious summoning and inviting some to transparency, because in and those units that have somewhat introduced this transparency, there is no full transparency. When I talk about it, I think of companies that we don't really know how and where money is going, we don't know how to hire institutions and other legal entities. And we don't really know [[Intruder: Thank you.]] where calling for fictitious transparency [[Thank you very much.]] and a fictitious fight against corruption leads. [[You've made yourself clear, thank you, but it's time...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22893	...it's gone. Thank you. And finally, Mr. Josip Boric, who will be the final position of the HDZ Representatives Club on this law cluster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22894	Thank you, well-respected Vice President Radin, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed Secretary of State. Here, in the end, we have, the final address on behalf of the club which clearly supported proposals of 3 laws, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections and the Law on the City of Zagreb, and we have spent maybe 2 hours of these 10 hours of debate, and the biggest debate was still about a law that was not in the procedure, it is the Law on the areas of municipalities, cities and counties, and here we have spent about 7 hours, and I think we have clearly crystallised the views between ruling and opposition. What were we going to say through these three laws? That we are still on that programme which reduces the number of officials, which reduces the number of agencies, the institutions, which we have done in the previous term, we will continue in this mandate and that we want to facilitate both citizens and the economy this functioning, their business, of course, and reduce costs. What we have proposed is that, in cities of up to 10,000 inhabitants and municipalities, deputy mayors and mayors are abolished, and that different categories of cities and mayors still have their deputies as well as minority deputies. We reduce the number of council members in all representative bodies, from municipal, city to regional level. Savings, estimated somewhere around 130 million kuna, and I think they're the basic messages that could have been heard from the debate all day. And then, I say, the debate spread a little bit, and we came to this, and there was a debate about the abolition of municipalities, that is. Is it necessary that we municipalities have or should be abolished, and that's where they've seen the two attitudes. A clear view of the opposition, and in turn, the Homeland Movement for the Disposal of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian sovereigns for the abolition of 2-armed municipalities, I said today and very persistently in doing so were both of their representatives and of those who spoke on behalf of the club, but also individually. We had representatives of the left green block who were already fighting over these chairs in the cities and municipalities in advance, they all got into a fight, but they're for abolishing and the municipalities, and they'd probably take out some cities. So we have that attitude. The bridge has calmed down a little today, leaving only one representative, i.e. Two, excuse me, and they said very clearly that they too were for the removal of certain municipalities and cities even though they left little and space that they might not want to. And finally, the largest opposition SDP party by about 6 p.m. was for the removal of municipalities and cities, and then a little retarded and left opportunities not to be abolished, i.e. to avoid any territorial reconstruction. That's what citizens need to know, why did I put it in the final speech? Because we have local elections ahead of us. Many of those sitting here will be candidates in those local elections. We are here in the ruling majority who will remind them of this debate. It is not correct to run in the municipality, in the city you would have abolished, which you would have in some debate politicized, populist, etc. Cancelled. You can do it, but we'll remind you. And you, a colleague of Bulj and a colleague of Grumo and a colleague of Zekanovic, where we will surely find them on some lists. They won't skip, they won't skip any elections and they won't skip the locals. That's what my citizens know, because, on the other hand, the majority that is against territorial reconstruction is in this form, as it is now, we're satisfied with it and we show and prove that this system can function. We've given a cross-section of how it went, stabilising the entire system from the '90s to today. The last changes we had a few years ago, what we call ourselves here is a lex sheriff, they've established a system of local self-government. In the past four years we've had me thinking 3 or 4 some elections for municipal councils that didn't bring the budget. Before that, let's remember what we had, how the council behaved. So we haven't made bad changes, we've made good changes. What we've suggested, the removal of deputies, I said, we can endure it, we can withstand a reduction in the number of council members, but the territorial structure must remain because these spaces have both people and fiscal capacity and can function because it has been shown in the past 30 years. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]] That's why we're going to to support these laws that are in the process. [[We do. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure.]] And we've given the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22895	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Miro Bulj. Three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Yes, he can, yes, three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22896	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. 238, where he insults MPs, mostly saying to some MPs that they have abstained. I hope that we will get this in Split-Dalmatia County of the last mayor and prepare you to hand over your colleagues to Boric, and the strangest thing is that you say as head of a local self-government unit every year is asking the county for half a million kuna... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22897	Thank you very much. Of course it was a replica, a reminder. Here you go, Mr. litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22898	Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22899	Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22900	You need to make a deal with Mr. Bauk he calls me Milanović you litre so... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22901	Okay, Mr. Marko Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22902	Thank you. Injury of Rules of Procedure No. In 238, Honored Mr. Boris, Croatian sovereigns are not for the absolute abolition of the municipalities. We are for the absolute rationalization of municipalities and local self-government, please distinguish from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22903	You haven't even called for an article, a reminder. It was a replica anyway. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22904	So here I see that I missed my colleague Boric today afraid that I wouldn't skip some elections, of course I wouldn't skip them, and I shouldn't be afraid and I won't get him there to Lopar and get him off the board even though these amendments of the law have allowed me to run anywhere. Art. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22905	This was neither a replica nor an invitation to the article it was just a statement of your attitude that I could give you a more difficult reminder, and I can only give you one. Here you go, Mr. Boric also wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22906	The violation of Rules of Procedure 238 among all three colleagues who have come forward because they again do not behave properly in the assembly, especially their colleague, Grumoja. Why? Because a colleague of Grmoja was a candidate of the Mosta who changed his name and was called Most again and when he wanted to become mayor he jumped off the bridge so I advise him to do it again, and HDZ in Dubrovnik-Neretva County will have a mayor again, and you can act, jump whatever you want, but people... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22907	Mr. Boric, do you want to give yourself a warning or should I give it to you? It's a warning. Mr. Arsen Bauk will speak finally in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22908	Thank you. I usually like this dynamic in the assembly, but still if I can say something. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you said colleague Boric, these are two hands in. We were with four hands against these laws this morning... Yes, yes, for the removal of the municipalities. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We were four-handed this morning against this law, then we decided to take one off when you fixed this with this replacement of the commissioner based on our proposal, not bad, then we're also going to take the other off because the second amendment you fixed and this about the number of deputies in the cities, because that's why you weakened this pressure on homes for older and powerless for 40, 50 people that's not bad. However, there are two more reasons why we will be against these laws. The first is that you left this provision on councilmen who have to compete with employers to come to the session, I still don't understand why because the reasoning is Article. 31. In the Law on Local Self-Government is written logically, but the provision is not written in such a way as to make it clear that council members do not have to get an agreement with the employer to come to the council meeting, but that they can come, and then that it is justifiable for them to be out of work. And of course the last part of why we're against it is because we don't want to be exactly the tower of the so-called. rationalisation and reduction of the number of political officials because we know that all those who will stop being deputies will eventually end up somewhere either in public companies or in utility companies or will be employed by administrative authorities or in the state service. So it's a multiple-sighted scenario, but now that they're going to those institutions, they don't have to be afraid every four years about going to elections, so they win elections, lose elections, so you've reduced the stress. It's an anti-stressing measure for those who are now officials. So it has certain advantages just don't like to be sold to us under rationalization, so we can't support these changes. Now, if by the time there's another amendment to fix what you've caused yourself to do, we're going to look at it and look at it with sympathy, and here's hoping that you'll also agree with minorities on this deputy in the minority order, that you'll consider other amendments to the ruling majority that he has, and then we'll see what it looks like, and then maybe you'll be understretched to accept which good opposition you might be. You might as well surprise us. Mr Vice President, I would like to know your commitment to democracy and parliamentaryism, given that there are not infinitely many amendments to this package of laws we are discussing and voting at the same time as the vote Some customs have changed, and that's a little excessive. [[I'll pass.]] So we would really love to see the number of amendments, to their content that we know in the end what we're voting for, so to know what's accepted, what's not accepted, and what's the vote on that day. There are not so many of them that it would now require too many members of the parliamentary majority to stay in the session, but ultimately it is your choice. Dear colleagues and colleagues, waiting for a further opening on the repairs of what you've caused to spoil, we're waiting for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u22909	What I can promise you will pass on to yours, your suggestions. I'll also conclude the debate, we'll vote when we get the conditions, but we'll clear the council hall now and we'll also blow our heads off with a little walk of 10 minutes. 19 and 45, me first, 19.45. It's 7:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24205	Here's a colleague. We're moving on with our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 19.46 HOURS]] Next is - Proposal for a conclusion on the Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the Civil Protection Staff is the Proposing Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists. On the basis of Article 165 of the basic Regulation, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasudić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24206	Dear Croatian peoples, I sincerely hope that this fact that important opposition debates are always pushed into the seal just before the end of time did not discourage him from... what is very much about your lives and your health I warmly welcome you all. The fact that within 10 months of the outbreak of the pandemic that has been harassing both Croatia and the world, the Croatian Government has not filed a single report to the Assembly on the work of the Staff, which manages our lives in these extraordinary circumstances, which unfortunately do not see an end, is one of the biggest if not the greatest humiliation of the Parliament in the recent Croatian history. But it is not only the humiliation and decoupling of the parliament, but also the humiliation of democracy and the humiliation of Croatian citizens whose representatives we are elected here. Let's just remember the recent play that took place here when we accepted the last amendments to the law and when you refused our only constructive amendment, and then you made your own conclusion that you naturally accepted that you would serve this House with only 3 times a year. Of course, it's three times a year, even rarely three times a year, it's not going to start right now, it's only there next year. You can play democracy. The ruling majority can reach the government's conclusions that the same government will accept, but that playing democracy aside from the fact that it's worth something to this House. This nonsense of yours, which is not the function of the Parliament, is very well paid. This shameful fact can only be explained by the totalitarian impulse of the ruling efforts to maintain 100% control of the situation, which apparently has long gone beyond their capacity. They forgot how by refusing to seek and accept the broader consensus and co-operation of crisis management, you took all the blame for mistakes and bad consequences on yourself. So as they politically profited from the government's victory at COVID-19 that in May, Prime Minister Plenkovic pointed out, which is... the slogan "Safe Croatia" which sounds particularly cynical now that Croatia is the most insecure in Europe, with record low turnout has enabled you to win the crown elections. And so today, because you asked for it yourself, and you set things up and did it, you yourself will suffer the consequences of this defeat of political, moral, and possible and legal when once in peace everything starts to disintegrate, and everything always ends up disintegrating. In that sense, in the name of the promoter at this point, I'm going to talk about four things: what the Staff is, therefore, about its legality, about the most important maybe issue, and that is to remind you where the trust in the Staff is missing, I'm going to talk about its morality. Then I'll talk about what's not about secrecy. We will also come up with an unopened issue of public procurement and corruption relations. And in conclusion, I'm going to say something about what we're looking for specifically in this report. So, I'm going to talk about what Croatian citizens need in times of crisis and what you persistently and persistently refuse, about the constructiveness, about the hand that the opposition provides you with, and then you're going to have to explain why it is as parliamentary representatives if you don't support this report as much as you do, and that the government is justifying you three times a year instead of you who are representatives in the most important institution, once a month, which I will remind you in every decent democracy at a time of this crisis all governments have long been doing. Once a month, and even once a week together, they submit a report to parliament, and then review the measures. Only in Croatia is the totalitarian impulse still prevailing. Let's start with the first thing I said I'd talk about. I'm going to say something about what has been legally considered, or about the legality of his decisions. If you didn't want to activate article 17. By avoiding the need of a two-thirds majority that you had paradoxically secured, because the opposition was constructive, it did not scavenge, so the legal changes had 2/3 of the votes needed, so if you wanted to avoid it, the higher question remains. Why did the rulings not act under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which is the law that was created to put up with such situations already under the Civil Protection System Act? Is it because the reins were to be taken over by Bozinović, not Berosh? To quote our legal experts, Grjana and Roksandić. In fact, it is quite unclear why an epidemic of a dangerous infectious disease would have occurred in theory, without the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and in the case of Covid-19, the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the People against Infectious Diseases already applied to the provision of Article 22. The Civil Protection System Act, not the law that was passed to serve these needs. So what's the problem with resorting to another law? So in sending an important message, potentially and dangerous message to Croatian citizens that at the moment of the crisis, health authorities are not ready to bear the burden of this crisis, but in the face of the crisis and even more control of our citizens' freedom, regular forces must be involved. An open question remains to be discussed for a long time whether this was necessary and why the health forces were not enough, have they really exhausted all their possibilities? However, the main policy issue concerning the legality of the headquarters decisions concerns amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also assumed jurisdiction over the transitional and final provision set out in Article 18 of those amendments, which enables the retroactive application of the law or gives additional legitimacy to the decisions of the headquarters. And from that, I'm going to re-quote our distinguished legal experts. In order not to resort to the argument that you often use unwarrantedly, which is that the opposition exclusively imposes some populist terms without their justification from such intrinsic changes to the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases results in a dangerous indication that indeed the decisions of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia have a dubious validity which is primarily an important political issue. But the more important question is why the decision was not made by the health minister mainly because no state of emergency has been declared. And if you don't want to listen to political messages already, or you don't think we're serious enough to talk about this topic with us, so here's an answer to our distinguished legal experts. The second thing I'm going to say about which is perhaps the most important and which now costs us all a great deal of the health and life of our citizens is the question of where morals went. Where did the trust in headquarters go in terms of headquarters and politics? I will remind you of just a few cases that clearly and unequivocally indicate where the citizens stopped believing the headquarters, where this fairy tale with a wonderful beginning, which is why everyone in the beginning was suffering very restrictive measures of questionable importance because then we had the hottest lockdown whose consequences will only be felt. Where did that beautiful fairy tale end up? So let's remember that we had members of headquarters who were rewarded by the post for their work at headquarters. Let us remember that we had transparent members of the ruling majority who equally transparently transplanted recommendations and measures of epidemiologists to participate in the declaration of the same majority. Remember the election announcement in the middle of the pandemic when the pandemic was no longer so severe at the time when the elections had to be declared. Let us remember that there is some scientific advice that should have been, so I dare say misused as a smoke screen of making exclusive, hasty and political decisions that are now falling apart, which further violates trust in the headquarters which is still there as the last body to make those decisions, and now that we learn that he does not listen to scientific advice and that there are no clear recommendations from the scientific advice we ask justifiablely on why these decisions were taken by the headquarters. Let us also remember that the decisions of the headquarters were first made in such a way as school masks, and then these same decisions began to apply regionally. Well, in some counties, masks have been lifted, some have remained. Why did they ever apply to everyone, if they were already able to apply regionally and by what criteria they had abolished, and by what criteria did they put again? Let us also remember that there have been attempts to control cell phones that have been rejected happily by quick opposition intervention. Let's remember the state secretaries who were partying, remember the club in Slavonska where members of the government had a good time during the lockdown. Let us remember the end and the most frequently repeated case of our distinguished prime minister and his close contact with tennis players who were of course not epidemiologically dangerous. These are just some examples that show why our citizens have lost confidence in headquarters, and the statistics we are looking at now show how much this trust unfortunately costs us. And let's not forget that bone counts in someone's lives. If the measures are indeed a political and economic issue, not just a health issue, so they are not necessarily strictly health advice, then we should be reminded that we are living in parliamentary democracy and that the most important political body in this country is this Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and that this is the basic reason why the headquarters owes the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia its report. At the very end, I will say something about what is not spoken of, about what has not yet been scratched, and what has long been checked and what we are about to engage to prevent. I'm going to say something about the relationship between the crown and corruption. In fact, I will remind you that in 2018, the UN focused on corruption as a threat to world peace and security. He also pointed out a year earlier that health is among the most profitable and corrupt sectors. It is also expected that the public procurement process will be closely linked to corruption during this crisis and that this will create additional burden on the back of Croatian citizens and not only Croatian but also world citizens. But that it is an additional threat to health, because it will not be preserved in those most needed precisely because of this same corruption. In health corruption, nearly 500 billion dollars are lost in peacetime. At the time of this crisis, over 32 trillions are estimated to be lost in the public procurement process. What about Croatia and corruption? Has anyone so far asked the real question of the relationship between corruption and the crown crisis? We could hear some justified or not accusations about certain members of scientific advice, but these are only though it is not irrelevant and everything needs to be explored especially conflicts of interest, and never conflicts of opinion on the prices of certain tests. But it's only the tip of the iceberg, it's just a needle in a haystack compared to all the medical equipment that has been purchased in Croatia so far and will continue to be carried out. And that same medical equipment is 17. In March, the Government's decision, paragraph 25, was excluded from the procurement process and its procurement was declared secret. This was then justified by the fact that we are indeed in a crisis moment, that different supplies of equipment are being intercepted and that we should safeguard our strategic interests because it is a first-class security issue. However, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies, since the beginning of this crisis, have passed nine months since the decision, the market has been reset long ago. At first, we had to limit the price of the mask to 12 kuna, and now we don't know where we're going with all those dezens that are being offered in the windows and who are currently the only thing we're being offered. Well, colleagues and colleagues, isn't it time to revise that decision? The club of the representatives of MOST therefore concluded that the Croatian Parliament should be removed from the public procurement process and that all medical equipment purchases should be returned to the public procurement process. I remind you that in June of this year, neighbouring Slovenia was having a major corruption affair over the purchase of a respirator. The neighbouring Slovenia is twice as good as Croatia according to all the corruption indices. And imagine, already half a year ago, they were having a corrupt affair during this crisis, at a time when emergency medical equipment is being obtained, which unfortunately is a fertile soil for the corona profit. And we're nothing, nowhere, quiet. What does that tell us? So the first thing that tells us is that unlike us, where this procedure had to be kept secret and where it could have skipped public procurement in Slovenia, obviously this transparency was not suspended, so they discovered their affairs. I call on you, therefore, to be transparent about what the Government has declared and to allow Croatian citizens to have the opportunity and insight into why medical equipment is being obtained, which medical equipment is being obtained and at what price. I'll remind you just one detail. I will remind you of the fact that every Croatian citizen can discover if they do a little research, which is, for example, that the antigen tests in Germany cost five euros and 90, while in Croatia cost 103 kuna. We used to brag about getting the best tests. Great! Are some Germans getting worse tests for their citizens or are we already deciding to get these tests for what we're using them for? We recently had research among high school students, but this research was not taken into account, or its results when it decided to lock schools. So, did we throw money and do nothing to explore what happened to the crown in high school? These are all the questions that await you and which you will have to answer once you have the courtesy to take down the secret mark from the past and from the future, even more future, because who knows how long this crisis will take to obtain all the necessary medical equipment. Only then will we be able to scratch the issue of corruption. And in conclusion, I'm going to say something about exactly what we're looking for. We are looking for a monthly report on the situation on the ground and the effectiveness of the measures so far. We're looking because we want to be constructive, we're asking because we want to contribute. We are looking for clear criteria in the tightening and mitigation report. We're looking for real regionality, not the one that's going on a little bit, so it's not happening. We're looking for arguments why certain measures and consistent application of measures can't some sports that I can't, some that I can't, that shopping malls can't do a bit, I can't do a bit. That catering facilities can't make coffee, and Tisak kiosks can, etc. Be consistent! We're looking for what I was just talking about. What was all that came from medical equipment? What procedure and what prices? We're also looking for a field detection of how many sanitary inspectors and other staff who control the situation on the ground? So we're looking for simple transparency, consistency, logic and systematicity, and that's our constructivity. The sincere and only intention of carrying out all of this is to force the Staff to do better and more transparent work in order to protect the lives and health of our citizens, but also to save the economy, society, parliamentaryism and elemental trust in institutions. Now you can take a nap and let us unscramble our own, not taking into account the arguments made. But I remind you that these proposals are for your own good, because by your choice, you and only you will have to submit political and any other account to Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24207	We have a few replicas. He's the first to represent the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24208	Our colleagues Rasudiæ can see that in the biggest crisis of the Croatian Homeland War, and not only in financial terms, but also in the social, human, because of the images, the information that people are showering us with fear. We have become a society of fear, and in such a situation, the body that manages the crisis does not find it appropriate for almost a year to provide information on how it manages, which is how the parameters are managed, which is why it takes measures, which is why some people are enabled, others are not. And now what I'm interested in, colleague Rasdic, is how difficult it is, how complicated is it to give quality accurate information why we'll deal with the epidemic better? How will this information help us? And if it's simple, and if that information will help us, why aren't they guided by transparency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24209	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24210	I appreciate the question. So, in order for you to have information, you have to have it first. In order to talk about the criteria, you have to define them first. We could hear the other day of Mr. Capak who said they were working to define clear figures that would make the measures tighten or soften. Great. And on what basis have you made your decisions before? And what the ruling people are constantly ignoring is that it's not that we're looking for something or that they're giving us something, but we're just representatives of Croatian citizens. And what they are hiding at the moment, which is how decisions are made in the Staff that change the lives and health of all our citizens, and not us. We're just their speakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24211	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24212	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Representative Selak Rasdic, we are all of course aware that this crown crisis can be freely said unexperienced in our lives has many consequences: both economic, economic, sociological, psychological, political. It would be hard to count them all. But let me just point out one thing in this presentation of yours. Let's go get some speculative water. You mentioned a famous club in Slavonia. Well, let's have some fun with the speculation now. You think that famous club was the one place where the little Pharaohs gathered during the first closing? And do you think even this moment in this so-called so-called. There's some new new clubs where there's toasting and sharing taxpayers' money? Here's a little speculation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24213	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24214	I thank you for this objection, Your Honor. Of course it's just speculation. But to assume that this club was just a continuation of a certain practice, not its beginning. But let's go back to what's key here because we're a legislative body, and that's the legislative framework. At the time when all the powers to act of the Staff have been restored to the hands of the Government, then the Government is also most responsible for its actions and for monitoring and implementing its measures. And when this same government, members of that government violate these measures during the lockdown while staying in certain clubs, then it is not just a matter of moral, but legal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24215	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24216	Dear colleagues would refer to the problem you presented with the antigen tests. Here, I've asked the question, Agent Question Minister Berosha, so I'm curious what his answer will be within that legal time limit. And I was curious about how much money was spent on antigens or PCR tests from the beginning of the epidemic to the present day in the Republic of Croatia by health institutions, how much purchase price, how much output price. Well, here's what we'll see, then, is what's going to answer, or it's still going to be a secret, or it's going to be a transparent answer. And I would also underline what you were saying, and what actually applies to Cost-Benefit analysis. I keep saying that, we didn't get answers from either the national headquarters or the ministry or the government. On several occasions I spoke on one side of the antigen test should be more massive, and on the other hand the cost of equipment, for respirators, not to talk about these economic effects that we're about to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24217	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24218	Thank you. I think the basic task is at least us as opposition if the ruling majority doesn't want to decide on the same thing, exactly what you said, which is to insist on the transparency of how money has been spent so far. Because imagine, it's a secret and there's no public procurement. Maybe we could panic and agree to that at first? But what happens now that the market has reset, when the supply has so much increased and when at least that part of the situation has calmed down during this crisis? Why do we still not have the right to know what is being obtained, who is being favored, and at what prices? When we get a report on these issues, we will only start a speech on the growing and burning problem that the UN warns about and all major global institutions, and this is the rise in corruption in public procurement at the time of each crisis and so on in this root crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24219	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24220	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ I would refer to your opening part. It seems to me that here when it comes to the Staff and the report on the work of headquarters things are absolutely upside down. It's as if we're living on some imaginary world, instead of being the headquarters or government that proposes, insists and comes before the Croatian Parliament and talks about what she did, what she gave us to do, how she did. We're discussing in the late evenings, so in that period, as few people as possible hear what we're going to discuss. So, not in that admission, like they get other topics, but in the late evenings, it's like he wants to hide, like he doesn't want to talk about it, like it's something you shouldn't talk about. That's what we need to talk about, and I'm absolutely sure, I'm interested in your opinion. that turned the saw upside down. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24221	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24222	I agree with Honorable representative Mrak-Taritash. It is about one systematic demeaning of the Croatian Parliament and all its members. So, we talked about corruption last night, and now in these late hours when citizens are justly resting from all the information and content they've been showered with during the day, they're having this debate that's crucial to them. And this time unfortunately not metaphorically for their lives. So, again, it is about hiding both the work and the voice of the parliamentary representatives, so that then, in accepting it for other matters, only for government affairs in which the re-ruling majority claps on itself and makes fun of itself with opposition as a populist, unstructured, and works exclusively on their own proposals, i.e. leading to a kind of monologue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24223	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24224	Here we have, as a club of MOST, made more proposals, so we have sent the amendment to the government's proposal. We asked for this report to be discussed, but the government doesn't want to do it. And well noticed by those who spoke before me, we have very important topics these last few days in the late evening. He's open to national stadiums, I'm not saying football isn't important, but at a time of this crisis, I'm sure citizens don't think about it. And what kind of message is being sent in this manner by the government, which we can do at all, except we can initiate this kind of debate. It is clear that their intention is to crack all these dangerous topics for them now at this time, and we see what happens to the Staff and the Scientific advice. Now that the game is lost everyone wants to get off a sinking ship and wants every debate in Croatian society to choke.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24225	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24226	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. I won't be pessimistic. The Parliament is working, we are doing our job and we take it very seriously by studying all foreign experiences and all relevant scientific literature by consulting with our Council to make decisions and to submit conclusions to this Assembly. And the lump that is currently rolling when we talk about an increasingly united opposition to corruption, and now on this report, the Staff is slowly turning into an avalanche. The Parliament is working, the Parliament will continue to work and his voice will be heard no matter how late and small the nights were pushed believe me. Take it easy! We've reached this conclusion, and we've already submitted a new one regarding medical supplies. You won't stop us or stop us from working. Croatian citizens have the right to know that there is an alternative that is constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24227	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24228	Thank you very much. Fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament is the only one who can control, has the right to control the work of the National Staff. However, we see that there is a headquarters in the problem, that all those who do not have an expert party card cannot help, are simply not desirable. And as for the contradiction of decisions, we can list them, you listed them a few, I'll do it a little later, and you'll see what a member of the National Civil Protection Staff said at the time, here's our fellow parliamentary representative here, Mrs. Bujevic. "There is really no need for us to buy these masks and walk with them around town, to walk with them to work because that virus will not prevent us from entering the virus. So it's no use? She's completely unnecessary to you, isn't she? It's completely unnecessary." I would just say in the end that so much contradiction and so much damage to people did this Staff that we Parliamentarians must deliver this conclusion. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24229	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24230	I'll be well-intentioned, and I'll be reasonable. And an esteemed colleague of the assembly attorney may indeed at that time as many did not know whether masks were useful or not, because scientific knowledge is currently changing from moment to moment and I will not blame you even for all the bad decisions you've made so far. But I'm going to blame you for not agreeing to change that practice just now and this week before. No matter what is done, it is important that we can now do together in this difficult situation, and then you tell the Croatian citizens why you refuse to do the same. If not in accepting our proposals, then at least in accepting our supervision, which is the fundamental task of this institution. So not what you've done so far, but why you haven't decided to change that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24231	We're going to a club statement. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24232	Thank you very much. The MOST Club is actively seeking, insisting that the Assembly and parliamentary representatives perform their work that the Constitution requires and, of course, the trust given to us by the Croatian people to the parliamentary representatives. I've been waiting here all day for this debate. Of course, this isn't about public television, there are more important things to talk about today than about the problem of the crown virus, the problem of the work of the National Command. Because this House is insignificant to the national public service, so no one can carry it, and it's done so today, it's just been a strict measure instead of airing windows every hour or two, you've aired them every 10 minutes just to make this debate go far into the night. However, we will continue to insist as the Most Club together with our opposition colleagues, uniquely, that this assembly performs that role played by the Constitution. The parliament gave power to the national headquarters, the MOST Club didn't vote for then, we were restrained because the time period wasn't determined, that's the first. Another very important thing is what the national headquarters doesn't behave according to what it recommends because Minister Beroš as a key person, Super Willy, you know that at the beginning of Super Villa that children in kindergarten were sent to Open Every Night was this show as a super Villa hero who flies he, Minister Bozinović, flew it as if they were 11 years old and not already who in some years as I was. At that time, the people had so much trust in these people that it was literally said to give up, that it was said that the measure that we had to give up naked on the street would be bare. Literally so many people were, they trusted. And what's going on? It happens that Minister Beros says I would ask young people not to hang out because of their own, not to go to the disco, that the distance of 2 meters, but he without any problem with our estrogen stars is painted hugged and published on his facebook, without any remorse. Prime Minister Plenkovic took a picture with a tennis player, not with a tennis player in physical contact, the photographer photographed him, photographed him by colleagues Bujevic came and did not go the prime minister who was physically in contact with Novakovic but went that photographer he went into isolation as a photo came in. So much nebulosis, so much nebulosis. Sports, you've brought satellites, mostly kids, kids in class together all day, go to maredna together, hang out, then say you can't train together, there's no training. The first and second leagues can, and the kids can't. So what's to keep our children safe from sporting activity? They adhere to a measure of course. If the sides together in the cups don't see reasons why they shouldn't be engaged in sports, they adhere to the measure, but no, the assembly must not discuss it, it must not report here by national headquarters and Andrej Plenkovic, who has taken responsibility, does not need Pilateski to follow his hands, shake off everything that is wrong. He's responsible. You colleagues and colleagues if you agree to this headquarters without us being the sole supervisor, the only controller has no other controller handed over all the powers to the government, that we are absolutely like, so people's mistrust in this body. Why? Because the government is leading you to the main word, the government is an executive body, and we are the ones who give frames in anything and in this matter. He says what the MPs will do, they have no idea about anything. So we're the ones who ask the illogicalities that happen and people's mistrust in this part of the headquarters. So scientists can't approach it as experts at the national headquarters as a tip to the government if they don't have a party card, so it's a shame in democracy. Is that a shame? So in the Communist party when Yugoslavia was yet one of the scientists come give advice to people.../incomprehensible/... and now even worse dictatorship, Cardellu sees himself graduated in Kardlje, the Cardelio way of managing. It's a embarrassing way. JANAF three ministers at the lockdown arch, a bank, a money-raiser on the counter at Dragan Kovacevic's club. Did they get sanctions, fines? It's easy to impose sanctions and punishments on an ordinary regiment, a man who plowed an orca three miles in a circle to take a six-mile round there's no one around him, 8,000 kuna, dropped him. The election comes, they ask Bozinovic the great Maestro Bozinovic how people will behave and yet it is a democracy that everyone has the right to choose, choose, do anything, put on a mask, go to the polls, circle and come out, and man.../incomprehensible/... 8,000 kunas that plowed the poor guy's orna so he could survive, three miles of no one around him. It's these contradictions, they're contradictions to the work of headquarters, but he's a political body. We have therefore voted on the government's proposal, this assembly, i.e. Last term, MOST didn't support the only one as a club and we see that we were right. Now we see that we were right, that you are a fraud. You went, you cheated on the MPs and my colleagues from the SDP because they believed it was in the best faith. And we saw that you, what you want, want Cardell's way of managing from the graduate work of Andrej Plenkovic, it's the best learned, the Cardellian way. Cardelity rules here with the help of Shex, and now you're peeking at it, how you're going to peek, you can't peek. But we put everything aside, colleagues and colleagues at this point we have no other tools and citizens expect the headquarters to give the report to citizens, when it gives the citizens to us, in front of the public to give the report to the Croatian Parliament. It's a very simple conclusion. And the only controller and the only controller. We gave you measures, we gave you measures of an amendment that was correct, it was, that you and the Most Club, give it to you, that every month you give a report. You didn't have to accept it. So what do we want here to be robots, best to target 76 robots here, Andrej Plenkovic? I'm sorry that the great Democrats Pupović Milorad has such a theatrical knowledge of almost all the tears that brings us here at the pay phone. Where's the Democrats, why isn't it protecting the democratic rights of parliament? Well, this is a violation of the Constitution, this is a violation of democracy, this is a dictatorship. This is a dictatorship and then another prime minister comes, says the prime minister comes every month. The prime minister comes in, we ask him one thing, we ask him I don't know about Minister Coric, he answers about the Istanbul Convention. He speaks MOST, SDP, HDZ, the Homeland Movement in the Coalition. And he's crying all the time that he didn't come to the SDP because Milanovic tells him he's better off going to SDP, Mr. Bacic. That's what he's telling me. In 2011, the HDZ entry at Zoran Milanovic's address said you'd sooner break through there with Jandrokovic and those around Sanader. And that's it. Jadranka Kosor pushed it and there it is, there it is. And he's telling us what would be an opposition but unique about being important to people's lives and things. What would the tribal be about opposition? It doesn't suit you that the opposition is united. The trial would suit you if the opposition were united as your controller, as the controller of the Croatian government. And that you accept that the National Headquarters report gives every month. This should be the responsibility of the Staff to Croatian citizens, not to Mir Bulj. I know you can't see me drawn, you can't see me, but the people choose me. That's another problem now. That is the second problem fellow Boric with much more votes than parliamentary representatives who will be robots. It's best to robotize the Parliament. They don't trim disinfectants, they don't keep a distance, we don't trim anything. We don't rub anything, but you turn it on, they raise their hands and that's it. And most disappointed me and not only that, you now have chaos in the coalition. I see some washing hands of Radimir Chacic washing hands of you, attacking you, well excruciating your skin. He received 5.6,000 votes one term and he holds a scale for you but it is so in democracy, the electoral law that you protect, which was also drawn up by Seks and Mato Arlovic together so that no one else would ever show up, ever. Yes, it is the law and the electoral law that it is possible for a man to get 6,000 votes in the whole Republic of Croatia and that he should be and pull you by the nose and do whatever he wants. However, it is our duty colleagues and colleagues to vote on this. I call on you for democracy, for the protection of the constitutional and legal order and for our people vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24233	Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24234	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as a club of MOST, we have made this conclusion, we have asked for a debate here in the Croatian Parliament, we have also given some cooperation to the ruling majority. We were prepared to even support certain proposals and amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases if this amendment was accepted because we felt that measures should be adopted depending on the situation on the ground and on some input data, parameters. So, to know what we need to achieve in order to mitigate the measures, what situation on the ground around the number of infected, dead, means they are necessary to introduce some more stringent measures. There's no parameters. The measures are being introduced, I don't know how they remember in the government. And I don't even have a problem with that, but then I need to be honest and say we've been making political decisions all this time. Don't hide behind the waist. Political decisions were made all the time. If you listened well to me in March and April, I said that in the Council, Staff should not sit just epidemiologists. You don't make decisions that only affect the state of the nation, you make decisions that affect the psychological state of the nation. He spoke to his colleague Petrov about the fear that prevails among the Croatian people. You make decisions that affect the economic situation, the economic situation, the social situation, the poverty that is potentially waiting for us. And I have advocated that the government, based on recommendations and advice and epidemiologists and economists and psychiatrists and all those who should be involved in the work of the Council and the Staff, then the Government makes political decisions. But the problem is that you represented everything as some kind of decision-making profession, and in the end it all turned out to be politicization and politics. And as counterpart Selak Rasdic said, I have no problem with the fact that someone made a mistake and that's what I said here, Minister Beros. So here's a colleague of Grba Bujevic, but then it should have been after that mistake, because this is a new situation not just for you, for this government, this is a new situation for the whole world. And there's no government that hasn't made a mistake, but when it's wrong then it's admitted that it's wrong and correcting mistakes. You're not ready to do that, and that's why the people are losing confidence in the Command. That's why we have meaning in the Council of Disputes between the members of the Government's Council, which is why scientists leave from that Council, or you thank them, and then you deny them. You don't even know where you are anymore. And that's what it's like when the game is lost, then you're looking for the culprit, and when it was a good situation, then you all wanted to take it out, then you wanted to profit from the election thanks to that good situation, and that's why you got the election, and that's what you've done here a few times again. But now take responsibility. The Croatian people can't be blamed for the bad situation now, and while it was good, then it's you who are responsible for the situation. And unfortunately, the situation will get worse and worse. And God forbid this all stops and we have no reason to call you, so because of the particular health situation around the coronary virus, we're dealing with those old problems we were dealing with here as we were dealing with corruption last night. But no one was interested in this debate too much right now, and you did your best to make sure no one was interested. But we will continue to warn about all the bad things that happen around both the health situation and corruption. counterpart Selak Rasudić has opened a very important topic today of corruption in the crown or corruption during the crown or crown of profit and we will talk about it. Not because we hope to get something on this, but because it is important for Croatian society. Someone needs to talk about it now. And we'll be right behind you when you didn't want to have an opposition with which you can make decisions with which you can co-operate, then you'll have an opposition that will keep an eye on what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24235	We have one replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24236	Thank you very much. I also listened carefully to Mrs Selak's opening speech and to you, so I wanted to ask if the scientific advice of MOST and the excellent epidemiologists led you in view of what was said meant to be a three-day submission of the report, a three-week submission of the report to the German Parliament, had you taken into account the impact of this report on what has been happening in that country these days, especially for the last 8 days, so that you could say that someone was guilty or less guilty. I don't know if you've consulted with the plates or with all the information that's available. So in the last 10.8 days, 150,000 infected in that country and 3,500 dead, the worst day since yesterday was over 600 dead. What contributes to this report in this House and how it prevents the spread of this infection and the number of those who die, have you consulted?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24237	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24238	I never introduced myself as an epidemiologist, and I didn't hide behind the waist. I am a politician and I make political decisions based on various impulses and consulting the profession, and you were hiding behind the profession, and you were making political decisions, and I told you that at Vukovar. Why are you afraid to say it's a political decision? The Vukovar is important to us and we are going to Vukovar despite this epidemic and the people will respect you. The people know how important and important Vukovar is. And you hide between the waist and the mud, one day this, another day that. As far as Germany is concerned, you know why it is important, regardless of the situation, I am not an epidemiologist and I cannot now assess on the basis of the German population whether there is a worse situation in them or worse in us, but what I can do is that Bundestag and German politicians will certainly have more trust in Croatian citizens for, German citizens to implement measures if they report to the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24239	The next Club of Representatives is SDP, a respected representative of Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have been warning for months what to do on the press, which has been said in statements that a new wave, a second wave of epidemics, has been coming since September, that the system needs to be prepared, that there will be an escalation of the epidemic. Medical associations on several occasions addressed the government, the national headquarters, the public. Some members of the Government's Scientific Council, scientists and experts outside the council also mentioned proposals, advices, warnings repeatedly stressed the need for early introduction of concrete measures before it was recently taken. I believe that all of us are in an urgent position to reduce the number of people who are infected or who are affected by it and who are dead. People's health is an over-the-counter issue and we keep calling for consensus. Back and forth for over 9 months, as the government's national headquarters seeks to manage its measures with crisis, it is high time to report on its work the highest home in the Republic of Croatia, so the Croatian Parliament. Among the measures adopted on 26.11. this year are a series of measures that should have been introduced several weeks before, especially those that do not enter the lockdown domain, which relate to reducing people's grouping, wearing masks, disinfection of space, restrictions on public transport. Perhaps there should be no closure of gyms, cafes, restaurants or should be introduced only in certain regions, of course more affected than the whole of Croatia. There is obviously no balance and coordination between local headquarters and national headquarters. Prime Minister Plenkovic said at a press conference on 26.11. this year when these stricter measures were presented, "We called for maximum responsibility and solidarity and warned that the situation could get worse quickly if we did not adhere to the measures. Unfortunately, we have failed and are now forced by additional restrictions on social life and economic activity to try to contain the spread of the epidemic." In further activities and statements, the ruling surfaced that responsibility was transferred to citizens. We heard that today on the Health Committee from individual colleagues from the ruling quota. That there is a part of the citizens who do not adhere to measures that do not recognise the existence of the virus, who behave irresponsiblely, who handle conspiracy theories while their neighbors die from the crown, who are intimating public order and peace. For those, it's fined sanctioning. But precisely inconsistencies in the measures prescribed by the headquarters, double standards, contradictions, adaptation of measures as well as at what point politically corresponded to Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Government, led after that initial support by the profession and citizens, after several months until the fall of trust in the work of the headquarters and government and the confusion of the citizens, and thus to the escalation of the epidemic. It was only 4th of this year at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament after the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Pleasances against Infectious Diseases that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament three times a year a report on the effects of the implementation of the measures laid down in that law while the decision to declare the outbreak of Covid's disease is in force. This is the opinion of the government that we received today in just two sentences. So, what we are saying is that we are proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept today's proposal. Not half a page of text. Of course you will vote with your 76 hands on what you're up to, but I ask you why you're afraid of transparency and communication, what's the problem? I'm asking another question, why did it all come together on 4.12, why just delivering reports three times a year? Why does the ruling not accept a months-long request for opposition, or today, to submit a report on work at least once a month, depending on the escalation of the epidemic and more frequently. Why not accept a given hand to bring out the best tools to fight the pandemic with common reflections? Why don't you take the advice of most of the government's scientific advice? Corona is also a mental illness. We've already spoken and today we've heard, you must include psychologists, growing anxiety, fear, including communicologists. We do not appreciate the work so far and the efforts of members of the Staff, but obviously something does not work when the measures taken have not obtained adequate results. We're the worst in Europe. There's something else about measures that could have been introduced that they didn't. I was still 16.11. I addressed the Local Civil Protection Centre in Međimurje with a memo, an initiative to introduce additional measures that are not lockdown but include more testing, online teaching, etc. That's what I was talking about in this pay phone, of course I wasn't speaking out of my mind, but I consulted the experts, so I'm a specialist in infectology and epidemiology, and that's what I'm saying again, Professor. Branko Kolaric, a member of the government's scientific council, was also trying to be expelled. So we're going in the order in which the measures are being taken. I requested testing of PCRs of all health care institutions in the area of Međimurje as well as employees and wards of homes for older and powerless, including private ones. However, only now that we have been the most affected county in Croatia for some time, i.e. the worst in Europe is said of antigen testing, so 1250 tests have been obtained to allow users and employees in homes for older and powerless. Because of the outbreak of the virus to the “incovid” departments in the hospital, in the hospital, or in the homes, because of the growing number of employees of these institutions, now, you will not, you will not, must access a larger number of tests. Here I am yesterday, five times tested as a health care professional, and all could have happened before. About the announced testing in several of our schools that were announced from Zagreb and the media, our epidemiologists were not familiar with it, so they gave it up. We saw it started in Zagreb and then realized that it was necessary to switch to online teaching in schools. But only in high school. Another measure, mass testing of fast antigenic tests by asymptomatic people, targeted, employees of companies, companies, cafes, restaurants, schools, kindergarten employees, so wherever more people work. Now, if this had already started before, this would not have happened to spread the infection among employees in businesses, as we see in the field, there would have been no loss of contact among the sick because they are afraid of work because in isolation they have fewer incomes, because some employers are forcing themselves to work even as they wait for test results, and then they turn out to be positive, etc. The Corona has, unfortunately, crawled into every corner, which is our counties, and which extends. More mass testing is the only way to isolate the positive or sick citizens as soon as possible. The profession and science say the epidemic is no longer under control, when over 5% has been tested positively. How's it going with us? 30 to over 50% tested. On average, in the last week in Croatia 35.6% are positive in the total number of tested, and today in Međimurje of 606 tested, 317 positive, means over 50% positive. So, there's still more to be tested. Third measure, mass testing with a rapid antigen test of all asymptomatic residents over the age of 10, a close test in Slovakia. This measure seems seemingly very expensive and difficult to implement, but according to reports, after testing a large number of residents in Slovakia, of 3.5 million tested, more than 38 thousand were positive for antigen testing, which were then isolated and no longer spreading the disease. The fourth measure, a public call for all symptomatic residents to report urgently to the competent doctors in order to conduct the PCR testing. In practice, we witness that many sufferers are late today, some with severe clinical images. I think it's good to introduce so-called. Call centres, like here, introduced into the 11th month. in our county, which is open to all issues of fellow citizens, but it takes continuous education of our citizens and a constant call to report to doctors if they have symptoms, as soon as possible, of course. Fifth, teaching in higher classes of primary schools and secondary schools and colleges online during the 4th week. So that's what I suggested three or four weeks ago. Not just high schools and colleges, but higher scores. The results of antigen testing, as well as research outside Croatia, have shown that among children and young people there are a large number of asymptomatic or mild clinical images that then carry diseases to older people, so family members, or older citizens. And here's the fresh news, in my county it goes for more classes, but only since 14.12. The sixth was the limit of extracurricular activities to 4 weeks, so the goal was to minimise contacts among both schoolboys and other citizens. And work from home wherever possible. So here is one whole series of measures that are available and that are partly late, but for improvement it's never too late. Here, thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24241	In the name of the promoter, the esteemed representative Marin Miletic has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24242	Dear Mr. Sanader, vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples. Honestly, I wish you what I want for myself. That this pandemic ends as soon as possible, honestly, and that as little of our people get hurt. Honestly. The situation is serious and serious situations require responsible behavior. Serious situations require both prudence and serious situations no one should panic. So as demanding as this serious situation may be, there should be no panic. Life has to run. You know that, there are several Croatian defenders here, some I know, some I've heard about. In the most difficult situations, life must flow, it must not stop. What the Croatian public sees is that measures have been taken that have been well-agreed by Croatian scientists among themselves, entrepreneurs, athletes. Now we see teachers, parents, students. They were able to argue with these measures whether they believed or not the priests among themselves, believers. Let me tell you, it seems to me that your focus is on the current and as if you're not thinking about what the consequences of psychophysical health that this pandemic brings are anxiety, depression of young people. Everyone is reasonable for those measures that bring good to the citizens. Do we have the right to wonder if all measures are logical? It seems to me that those at least who may be a minimum risk to health, and the big centres, here, specifically through which thousands of people are going through in a closed area, in a closed space, they work. May I ask a question from this honorable place as far as possible? How is it possible that big malls work and the terraces of the caterers can't work? Restaurant terraces? The terraces in the open? How is it possible that citizens like Luke Krmić were forbidden to sell their Mandarins on an open stand in their van and import lobbys what? Protecting? The Church of the Ascension of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Rijeka, we call it the River Fiumanes of the Vela of Creva, is a huge beautiful church in which it costs you between 600 and 800 people, 800 let's get together, but 600 people without a problem. And in that church there can be 25 people, those are measures. All right. And then we have in the same town the church of Fabian and Sebastian, on Sundays and there's mass. The church may have about 40 square feet if it barely costs 30 people. Now there's only 25 people in that church. That's reasonable, I don't think so. Athletes stepped on without criteria or exceptions. It's forbidden to train swimmers in a swimming club who swim in their tracks, divers, those who jump into the water alone and cannot train. In that same pool, the water polos are free to train. No sailing allowed. Sailing? Where the athletes are in their sailboat in the sea air and the coach is 10 meters from them in the dinghy. No gyms. We can see that constitutional charges have been filed for unequal treatment. Check this out, you can't enter the gym in the same training that you came to the gym with, it's mandatory to change clothes, use a personal towel, disinfection, cleaning every device after use. Well, I don't think anyone's crawling in each other's gym. That sweat doesn't spray at 10 meters around you. That's where people come in with strong immunity, forbidden. We have an absurd situation in the stadium in Split two football clubs, one athletic club. Everybody's training on the same ground. The Split Football Club is in the third league, he can't train, and the women's football club in the first league trains most normally on what Professor Chular warned from the Faculty of Kinesiology in Split. There's a lot of illogicality. And that's why I think it's important to be reasonable, to understand. I want to especially welcome handball players this time, even though no single game has been passed, they have won huge victories. And I believe in the name of both the opposition and the ruling great greetings of our athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24243	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Working in the Croatian Assembly of Members of Parliament and our clubs is looking for knowledge of the content that is being discussed, as well as knowledge of the form and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So I have to say by listening to it so far in front of me mostly members of the MOST club besides the distinguished representative Maric, I don't know what document we're talking about, but we're talking about. Or you gentlemen at the Most don't know what document we're talking about. So, I'll remind you what we're discussing right now. We are discussing tonight a proposal for the conclusion of the MOST to be in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit within 30 days to the Croatian Assembly a report on the work of the Civil Protection Staff for a period of 6 months starting on 18 March. Ms. Professor Marija Selak Rasdić tells us what we are looking for and I will quote her, she says: "We are looking for a monthly report from the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the National Staff." You could at least try a little bit, so the amendments are brought before we go about this because we can adopt this conclusion because it is even below what we have proposed as a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community when we tasked the Government to inform us about the activities in the first month, the effects of implementing the measures of the Civil Protection Staff under the supervision of the Republic. This way we can take this freely, but this is less than we suggested. You were supposed to be a club, a serious club in the Croatian Parliament, coming here with amendments and aligning those amendments with your performances, your speeches, your discussions. What you're saying isn't what it says here, we've all read it. So what you're saying was an amendment. You're still obviously last week, and it's been nine days since then, life goes on. Amendment, we are not discussing your amendment that you sent to law. Forget about it. We are discussing what you have written and what you have supported with 30 hands to put into the agenda. We included in the agenda the conclusion that you wrote in September, not the amendment you delivered a few days ago. It's a big difference, it's a form. And therefore, you're asking us to support something, and you're talking about something third. We will vote on what is written, what you have asked for in the agenda, and not what you are talking about. If they took it, they wouldn't bring anything. It's indisputable with what you suggested. But it's good, it's form, it doesn't matter. It's more important to measure. And we can talk about it. And now we're going to talk about the metrics, so. You're saying we're refusing to cooperate. The hand of cooperation was respected friends proposing the moment the government came to the Parliament with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. It was a hand. What did you suggest? What are you? Which is why you went to the government except for the amendment that once a month the government met the Parliament. What was the measure you went out with? Have you suggested one measure? Well, if we had turned her down, then you'd have the right, with the full right to say you don't accept our amendments, our measures. I'm interested in a measure. You are one measure, that you have proposed one measure and that the government and the ruling majority have rejected it and then we could talk about not wanting to accept the hand of cooperation. You're not! So you didn't do it. You keep referring to Article 17. The Constitution and decision-making by a two-thirds majority. But then when you asked for it, you should have read the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision states that the Assembly is authorized to determine whether, in this epidemic, its way of defense against this virus will be based on Article 16. So by one law and by another, and by the third, they will prescribe measures for them to restrict human rights and freedoms in order to protect the health of our citizens. That's what Article 16 said. That's what we do. We're going into law with such bill proposals. And don't tell the truth when you claim to be two-thirds of the majority you've passed the laws. You're not gentlemen! You're not! Read it is not difficult to go to the website of the Croatian Parliament. With a two-thirds majority we only brought amendments to the Civil Protection System Act, but the most important law that was passed in the Croatian Assembly against the epidemic, covida-19 is the Law on the Protection of the public and its changes. And you know which one we brought it with most of the time? With 80 hands. That was the number of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, not the two-thirds majority that you are constantly planting on us, so we should feel guilty because you supported us at the beginning. You're not! Look who you were, and so can you who weren't, and so can our viewers who watch it, let them check on the web pages we're with most of us. No, we're at 80. To go back to what the Constitutional Court said. The Constitutional Court did not say that in the event of the activation of Article 17. What you call the laws restrict human rights and freedoms by a two-thirds majority. No, no. That's not what the Constitution or the Constitutional Court said. The Constitutional Court said that if the legislator decides to activate Article 17 in order, not by law, to decide which rights and freedoms of Croatian citizens can be limited exclusively by a two-thirds majority. And I ask you, on behalf of the ruling majority, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, to come out with that decision instead of waiting for us daily in the Assembly and calling for article 17. Come out one time. Give it, make it, make that decision, write it instead of this wrong document you're talking about, and you're writing differently about what you're asking us to do. Come to the Assembly with a decision on the two-thirds majority that we will measure. We'll back you up. Tell me what measure we're going to propose to activate the National Station, which is not contained in the law that you're contesting. Give me one measure. We, we suggested self-insulation you didn't support her. No, it had to be brought by the ruling majority with 80 hands. You didn't support self-insulation. Are you aware of that? Give you a third measure, give you some measure we don't know, give as an opposition, and then say we don't give you the hand of cooperation. The fact that we will report to the Croatian Assembly O.K. The government will inform him as the HDZ concludes in January at the first session immediately the first week will report what it has done. We will be at the Croatian Assembly this week and next. By the way, three times in a week, we've talked about this subject three times. For the first time in the Law on the Protection of the public, the second time tonight, and the third time we'll do it again tomorrow. Twice according to the opposition proposal. Twice about three in the Croatian Parliament. We're discussing this on a proposal of opposition. This is what you suggested tonight because with 30 signatures, you asked us to discuss this. And okay. When I was an opposition representative for 4 years, I couldn't discuss my interpretation in the Croatian Parliament, for 4 years I couldn't and we changed the Rules of Procedure where you can have your agenda every week. And tomorrow, by our will, we will not discuss with you the opposition proposal for interpretation again because of the state of health system in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, our hand of cooperation has been provided, but not on the general principles that we have already passed in the Croatian Parliament. But put forward concrete measures, change what you want, propose laws that you think we don't know, and you know it. And that those laws, if we adopted them, would help the National Staff pull them out as necessary at a given time. Do it. If we do not discuss it then, if we refuse, and even if these measures may not be immediately at the beginning of the good, then you could rightly tell us that we have ruled out, that we do not know or that we do not want to co-operate with the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. We want that cooperation. You had a chance a week ago, one measure that you think was good, and if we hadn't remembered it, so if you had suggested it and we refused, then we'd be exclusive, then we'd be one ruling majority who doesn't feel that at difficult times when a consensus is needed in the state, when we can't share in political parties, on us or on us that we're exclusive. But you didn't give us that opportunity except to ask us to, to fight on the basis of Article 17, which the Constitutional Court said we shouldn't, that it's up to us to determine who it will be. And we decided that this system was much better. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24245	There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24246	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić injured Rule 238. Where he said a string of i.e. Insult and untrue to the MPs of Parliament. First of all, the MOST Club has proposed this conclusion that the 18 March 2020 report means the last 6 months for which you have not given a report, and you have not accepted our amendment that we have given, let's say if you accept it, we will even support your actions, although the Staff is not doing its job. Second. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] He's lying all the time that the MOST wasn't giving the measures. We've been giving more measures for the economy that you've prescribed, 90% of these measures are our proposals. Thank you for supporting them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24247	This was a replica. You're getting a warning, and please, you're the third representative of the Most, so you can leave the hall. You're the third representative of the Most Miro. Yeah. Here you are, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Nino Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24248	My colleagues and colleagues, speaking now on behalf of the promoter, I will try to clarify the context and intentions and objectives of this conclusion. The date we referred him to is 16.9. In 16.9., the situation from today’s perspective was great, beautiful. How was it then, and what was going on and how it escalated later when we went with the amendment where we asked that once a month in that situation the escalation would continue to report. It is not true that we have not proposed any concrete measures. You've heard a lot of concrete measures. Let's say in that amendment itself, we asked for clear parameters to be laid out. In the debates we have instructed foreign examples of different models how all this is done, for example, the model traffic lights British. Clear parameters on the basis of which once a month the Staff could be determined after the debate in the Assembly. Whether measures will be tightened, tempered, or perhaps even abolished. That's what you refused. We did not write this conclusion, referred to the procedure just to embarrass you, to put you in a position to refuse that request in a parliamentary democracy in a situation of this pandemic and threaten to submit for that half year's report on what the Staff was doing. That's not why we put up with it. We have put up with it in the faith of the sincere, perhaps naive, that you will act as responsible parliamentary representatives, respecting both why you are sitting here and that you will adopt that conclusion. I really still hope that there will be enough of you to support this conclusion, and I do not think that you should politically dig the pit for yourself and your majority, but rather act in your own interest. If you really want to come out of the Makiavelist, not Cardelevski. Col. Bulj said Cardellj advocated self-government socialism, so something that still wore a connotation of democratisation, although it always seemed caricature in the political practice of the Socialist Yugoslavia. However, it seems to me that some forms of Leninist firm party control are being handled here. There was a joke in the Soviet Union about the difference between Cardele's delegate system and Soviet socialism. It says what's the difference, so in the Soviet Union, officials are driving in limos, and in Yugoslavia, the working people are driving in limos, but through their political representatives, through their officials. That's the difference. It seems to me that here the political will of the delegate system was delegated when the electoral lists were agreed and then the Parliament was filled, and then the Government. The president of the government makes all the decisions and in the House only heeds his hand. That's what I think, but deep down, I want to believe that's not the case. I don't think you're 76 robots that could be placed there, so Prime Minister Plenkovic presses the button for and then all those hands then press for it. I don't think so. I really hope that a few of you will be taken by Mr. Hrebak who insists so much on transparency, so what's the problem with being transparent at least once in half a year. I don't know if there has been a case in any of the parliaments in Europe that since the start of the pandemic, there will be a year soon no report has been submitted to the Parliament. I sincerely hope so, although Mr. Plenkovic grew up in Cardeli and Mr. Bozinović, who keep the main word, but I hope they heard about Machiavelli somewhere. Do the Makiavellist thing. Machiavelli recommends to the ruler, and we can expand it here to the ruling structure. He says that those pleasant decisions and news delivers and makes themselves, pleasant to the subjects, and uncomfortable to leave to his ministers. What does that mean? If you need to announce salary increases, pensions, tax cuts that will be done by the ruler himself. If it is necessary to announce a reduction in salaries or an increase in taxes or some restrictions, it will be through its ministers. So you've been given the opportunity here after these nine months to share responsibility and it's in your interest to share that responsibility. But I think you're going the other way. And indeed by refusing, here is a proposal of this minimum conclusion that at least for those six months, a proposal is submitted. I note 16.9. was submitted. In the meantime, she escalated the situation. As we've already heard you're taking absolute blame for what's going on and what's still going to happen for that you're going to pay the bill. You will pay him politically, and some bohemian will pay him obviously and legally when things start to disintegrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24249	We have one replica, an esteemed representative, and an apology for a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24250	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Rasdic, our conclusion of the HDZ Representatives Club has been consumed by your conclusion, consummated. We'll discuss what you're looking for in 30 or 35 days. I guess that's what you're aware of, and as rhetorically as you're trying to get away from it, there you are, where we said we were on the same deadline. We're talking the first week of January when the assembly starts working, and you're talking about 30 days. I think we're, that's it, there's no difference. So you're in the metrics of our conclusion. As for seriousness, I've never had the opportunity to replicate it before because it seemed to me on behalf of the club. Responsibility is shown by its own example. On September 5th, your representative at the Freedom Festival showed what he thinks about the seriousness of the crown situation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24251	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24252	This conclusion was made on 16.9., you could think about what you wanted at the 9th month, and then think about it, so maybe it's really wrong that half a year already has no one to report so you can bring that report to 1.10. 35 days is a lot, in a situation like this it's a lot especially from Mr. Capak we hear a sentence that they're now making criteria based on which to take measures. And on what basis did they bring them in for eight months or nine? So people are confused, people have lost their trust. That's what this is about. So it's not about 35 days, it's about a period of 16.9 when maybe you could think about that initiative a little bit and bring in a report, and by the end of January it looks like when we're going to hear that first report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24253	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24254	Thank you. Well, it's really cynical that my colleague Bacic is talking about how we didn't make the proposals. So if anyone has made proposals and measures and amendments and budget and measures to help the economy and proposed some models that the headquarters should actually behave and that the government should make a decision, it is us. And then he says they consumed our proposal. Well, you had our amendment to the law to file a report once a month. And this is old colleague Bačić, almost 3 months of this proposal, and I had to collect the signatures for this to come on the agenda. And what do you tell us today? We'll report in 35 days. Just file a report right now. The situation is alarming, report immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24255	Replication response, pardon the violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Grmoya has hurt Article 238, he's twisting my words. Since your conclusion that we haven't discussed the Government's report, in the meantime, my colleague Grumo has submitted an annual report in which the report is, read it, most of it is dedicated to fighting corruption. And we discussed it in the Croatian Parliament it seems to me a month ago A report reflecting on the crown. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24257	This was a replica, you have a warning, and a representative of the Grumo's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24258	Yes, Article 238 was injured, counterpart Bacic blatantly violates the Rules of Procedure, has not denied at all what I said that the government does not want to submit a report on the work of headquarters. We're not interested in the government's work report, we're interested in what the headquarters was doing, how it was taking action. And there's no answer to that, colleague Bacic, except he can get out of the assembly, which he's doing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24259	Mr. Grmoya, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This was your replica. You have a warning, too. Here you are, the next replica is appreciated. and I'm sorry. [[I've got an answer on this line.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24260	So, Mr. Bačić's presentation said that we required the activation of Article 17. The Constitution, we never did that. Hypothetically, we've always said the same thing when you haven't decided to activate Article 17. The Constitution is amazing and we have seen the scientific works of Croatian scientists, professors at the Faculty of Law, express the same wonder and doubt as to why the Law on the Protection of Publicities against Civil Diseases, which the note was adopted for the situation of infectious diseases, which Covid absolutely is, but was followed by the Civil Protection System Act. The only logical explanation is that the reins were to be held by Mr. Bozinović. And what's still a problem is media reporting. It would be good if the prime minister had advised them differently at that famous meeting with media editors. The public was bombed daily and confused by everything that's going on. This reality show members of the headquarters only in Croatia. I follow foreign media in several countries, only in Croatia meet headquarters, press conferences of headquarters every day Then on 5 televisions all members of headquarters every night and so on for a year. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24261	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24262	Dear colleague Rasudiæ here I would refer to what you said MOST sent this conclusion on 16.9., so a perfectly reasonable explanation and I see no reason why colleagues actually do not act on that conclusion. I would also remind you that in addition to what you have submitted the amendment here, I have in front of me what we have also submitted as the SDP Representatives' Club to accept the conclusion that we are asking that the Staff report be submitted once a month. So, this is what we've been talking about, I don't know if Mr. Bacic was listening or not. I also don't understand why all these measures, all these tips, all these constructive proposals that we make are not enough for colleagues in the ruling majority. You keep moving that ball, why didn't you take this, why didn't you do this, I think it turns out we're the only ones who need to take some action and make any suggestions. We tolerate them, but you don't accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24263	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24264	I thank you, there will come a time when the line will be drawn and the accounts collected. All these extraordinary situations go by, there's been a war, and in war, people have done all sorts of things intoxicated at some point, and they can think that they'll never be leveled, but there's going to be a time of review. So you'll see who did what and when and who suggested who refused. The opposition was constructive all the time, I can really say it for the whole opposition and for those that in most other things I disagree with, the opposition did not scavenge, it was constructive, it was 2/3 of the spring that turned out and paradoxically to us if you were looking at your own political benefit today this shouldn't have happened. You've taken full responsibility. Here, wear it now to the end. There is no longer a win situation expensively paid by lockdown when it was probably not needed by which Plenkovic boasted won my government Covid in the 5th month, but the situation of defeat, so you bear all that defeat. And we want to share the responsibility of such proposals, so I'm surprised that at least the machivelists don't think and share that responsibility and the bad news to share them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24265	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24266	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Rasdic, what is actually surprising is that we are not actually discussing the metrics, but the ruling attempt to transfer the matter in a way when someone has reached a conclusion. It's about the conclusion you made on September 16th. Between September 16th and today 9th, there is a big difference in the number of infected and the number of dead. And instead of being ruled by the ears, they were already able to give a report to the headquarters. It was quite enough time from September to December to do it, but not they never enter that measure but they enter the form of why someone did this or that. What I'm really saying is, if you want to do something, one reason is enough, and if you don't want to, then you'll find 122 reasons. So I am deeply hoping that he will come to his senses and that one conclusion like this will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24267	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24268	Here, we've instructed foreign examples, the German Parliament once in 3 weeks does it, the English once in 2 weeks, we've been looking discreetly in this situation of escalation once a month it wasn't, it wasn't accepted. Here's what I don't have to add further. It is a scandalous fact that I will repeat once again that in such a pandemic that has destroyed both Croatia and the whole world and health and economic and psychological and in any other way that we as a parliamentary democracy in 10 months do not still have reports in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24269	The last replica of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24270	My colleague, Bacic, in his exposure to the rivers, set the criteria for bringing, punishing people, neither the criteria nor the goal, let's simply punish people for not wearing masks, for all things, but no criteria or goals. He's so lost his headquarters, you can't believe it. Explain what message it is to citizens if we parliamentary representatives cannot get a report from headquarters, parliamentary representatives, and the law that is present here by Beroš and which most unfortunately has accepted has no goals, nor criteria when increasing when reducing measures, how many thousands of people to whom it is normal or abnormal that the infected are absolutely one confusing situation. So here's what the citizens are going to say after all these laws and disrespecting opposition by robots or most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24271	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24272	It is very difficult to expect public confidence when there is still no report and discussion in the parliament that should represent the public. If it could be wrong at first, making some unmeasured statements because the situation was new, the virus was new and it didn't know, we now have 10 months of experience around the world. Many statistical analyses in different contexts, in different countries, as the measures resulted in, this and that number of people infected at 100,000 or million. You in England have this traffic lights system, so easier condition, medium and difficult condition where for every living situation average man you know exactly on that number of infected is your diet going to school, whether it's public transportation, whether you can go to a gym, to a restaurant or anything else. In our 10 months, I repeat this from statistics and experiences around the world, we still don't have something like this, and how people will be treated when obviously the headquarters doesn't know what it's like to take action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24273	The next debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24274	The Honorable President of the Assembly has already been here for 9 and 23 minutes, I will start in a little bit of an unusual way, don't mind me just for a little while, I'll brief you, what is it, yeah technology a little.../The speaker included a recording of the tone record: "The Prime Minister, I will ask from this place the Prime Minister, are we ready, are we ready for the possible epidemic of the coronary virus?"/...I won't be able to actually release the whole speech, it's 7, 8 minutes, and it's about the speech that I had from this place on February 5th. On February 5th of this year, of course, and then I remember right after that speech, my colleague Orepic was making fun of me, the zekanovic corona virus, and then later my colleagues, some of them weren't at the HDZ assembly making fun of me anymore, but here comes the coronary virus, and we have problems whether it's big or not. So on February 5th, I tried to buy a mask, didn't find any masks, so I managed to find gloves, so I asked if we had those masks, but at that point, it wasn't in focus. He was at the time thinking whether he would leave Kujundzic, whether he would set up Beros, prepare for the internal elections, all of this is legitimate. Then later on 11, not 11 or which was already the day, we were already in, we were already in the INI there we were sitting. After we gave absolute authority and power to the Civil Protection Staff, I asked the good ok, we gave this one new body the opportunity to govern the Croatian state, it's really crucial in time and I said about this, that time will count as we look at the Bible, meaning before Christ and after Christ whether, before our era, our era and before our era is whether, that we will speak before the crown and mean after the crown, after the crown. And that's how it's really gonna be. And when there's such a big crisis that breaks time in half, then every responsible state tries to gather everything and opposition and power, but not only formally in some moments but in such a real way. But our government tried to use this crisis for political purposes as well, so she tried what was legitimate I'll say, that's legitimate, nothing was wrong with Andrej Plenkovic and to win the election. And he did it, he got lucky a little bit, but here he was able to win the election. And I remember in the '90s, the early 1990s when there was a government of national unity, when it was a really difficult situation and then the opposition and power all stopped together and there was no shooting in the Croatian Parliament, everyone watched as the Croatian state would defend itself. This crisis is at least so difficult I'll say, then the schools worked, today they don't work, then the churches were always open, we could not go to the world mass for a month, then the cafes were open, today they're not open, and the economic downturn is still today and bigger than it was in that period. So, we're having a huge crisis, and now that we're helping out here and we're saying okay, let's give you a little correction of some of the ruling things aren't working out, then here at the height of your HDZ colleagues, it might be. My colleague Bačić mentioned that we were not concrete in the measures, I will mention two measures of banal, funny, here they are from the assembly, I warned and said ok, if we can be 41 representatives at once in the assembly, be it regardless of party membership, because Croatian sovereign cannot infect only the Croatian corona with the virus or HDZ, HDZ or HDZ, but the coronary virus is transmitted to anyone. Well, then let him always be 41 men, not just party members. You turned it down like that, why, because you can. I've asked one specific question that I still don't have an answer for. Here's my colleague Rasudiæ got over the crown and I got over the crown and my colleague Pavlićek and now I know for sure 20 MPs had already had a coronary virus and they all have according to what Mr. Beroš tells us we have antibodies. And many have serologically tested and proved it. Then why the masks? I even asked the president of the assembly or the presidency they sent it to HZZO and then Capak answered me, you have to have on the mask because the mucus as a nose can be something, whatever it has to do with anything, nothing to do with anything, it's ridiculous. Here I am going to have to publish that memo of his to see what that argument is. It's like I'm putting a mask on this pay phone right now because there might be a coronary virus there, too. It's like we're covering the masks with all the objects in the world because there could be a coronary virus anywhere. People have been scientifically proven that people who have been over the coronary virus with medium and stronger symptoms that already here are Chinese hard from the first month to today have immunity, so that's a year. And that's scientific, let's stick to science. Will you later when people want to vaccinate and make them wear masks, I'm not into it. Now these are concrete measures, and Capak wrote to me wearing no matter what. Okay, I get that the mask message is one and we as responsible politicians are sending a message to people be responsible, but I'd like to have a little bit of that scientific approach. We're facing a major crisis of one of the greatest crises in mankind's history, we don't see the end of it, I hope here that we might have experienced this famous herd immunity soon given the large number of infected in our country, but we're not sure. And I'd like to have our voice heard on this side too sometimes, and to realize that it's not every time and that proposal that gives you a big report now that cares about the report, it's not a matter of reporting, we've handed it over, we've supported it, it's a thing to feel, and it's a feeling, it's known, it's not even being solved in the assembly, it's being solved in the hallway that it needs a hand in union. And just one more thing here, as far as any of this community is concerned, that's what my colleague Selak mentioned, etc., and another, as far as these fronts and SDPs are concerned, and as far as I know, I'm not going to be involved with them, just so you may not be in some sort of delusion. There is no union nor will there be, nor will there be. Some points we can agree on, but I won't call it a community it's purely some kind of cooperation on some subjects, but the union of sovereigns don't count as all those who don't agree to the idea of sovereignty and Christian principles, but not fakes, but it does. There's so much on my side about community. And I'm not part of a single opposition, we're not part of a single opposition. We are Croatian sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24275	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24276	Here I am saddened that my colleague Bačić went away, he said a series of lies, misinformation mainly about this conclusion, and he's doing well because it seems to me that the student is getting better than the students. Shex is his best man and teacher, so he's getting a little touchy, so much manipulation that it's said because MOST suggested it two months ago this proposal. So at nine months and we've been asking that in the last half-year of the draft Staff, ie. Since when this Parliament has given power to the Staff to give a report to the Croatian Parliament ever since. They didn't accept it, but at random a few days ago they proposed a law here that they made over the weekend on penalties, measures when they lost completely, completely control. They didn't know what to do anymore. They couldn't control any measure at all. And this Chief of Staff came here, and he's making a proposal, essentially without a goal or a specific goal. So what was the point of this law? When? What? What's the criterion? When he will, we have given the amendment. The MOST Club has given the amendment, not accepted. That's a fact. It's for the truth. Because what my colleague Bacic is doing on behalf of the HDZ Club, I have to say it's a lie, a lie and a deception. I can't qualify that otherwise. As for the MOST Club, the MOST Club has made a number of proposals in the past term on not only health crises but also economic measures, to introduce first of all what Slovenia has brought, to protect our economy and our people, to give a year of moratorium on credit,... Moratorium on loans and interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the first measure given by the Slovenian government. You didn't accept it, but you gave the banks the opportunity to give the moratorium without, meaning interest so that ultimately more expensive loans will turn out to our people who had a moratorium because of this period of moratorium when they pay interest. We've made a number of other suggestions, but the confusion has introduced the Staff and we're actually blessing. We can't bless the confusion. We as controllers, the only controller, the only one, there is no other, the Croatian Parliament. And we give so much authority to a headquarters who literally doesn't get along well, and that's what all experts who don't have the party card of most HDZ say publicly, either most of them. And in this confusion, do not listen to the opposition, do not ask for the division of responsibility of what the colleague spoke about, the division of responsibility, support is not good, it is not good. Andrei Plenkovic is here, people are wrong. Well, you colleagues and colleagues don't have the guts to say that, I understand that. You out of the majority, however, are mistaken. He's wrong because he didn't want to share responsibility with the opposition and you make confusing decisions, you introduce panic, fear, the economy you create uncertainty and those who can work. You can see that entrepreneurs are setting up a wreath in front of the ministry of Minister Coric and the economy. So that's what this is about. Your coalition partners are leaving you a little bit, and they're attacking you most strongly. Why? Because you didn't ask for a share of responsibility. You wanted to control that system, but I'd like Andrej Plenkovic to explain to me here when he said we won the crown, that Croatia beat the coronary virus like they caught it, like the coronary virus had 110 kilos in me. Well, it wasn't them, the coronary virus was unknown. And I understand colleague Bujevic at the time made confusing statements, but I can't understand that after all today they don't want to accept the proposal we make as an opposition, the MOST club, but the destruction of the ruling, destruction of the opposition, the demining of opposition proposals. And even now the opposition... These are the sovereigns, these are the bridges, these are the ones I don't know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this is a proposal for the well-being and health of our citizens, that they have criteria and that the Staff is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. This is not a question of ideologies and worlds that you fear will lose a few voices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24277	The next debate is an important representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24278	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I am embarrassed that here, in the late evening hours, we parliamentary representatives, actually representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at all, must discuss this proposal, not of course, because the proposal would be bad. The promoter is absolutely right to propose the government's obligation to report to the Parliament on the work of the Civil Protection Staff that corresponds to the government, and the government responds to the parliament. The promoter has the support of our club CENTR and GLAS. What makes me uncomfortable is that we have to ask at all, that we have to get out of the opposition benches, as members of the highest legislative body of this country to look for these extraordinary governments to give us a report on the work of the Staff, the Staff that has been cheering and dressing this country for eight months without having ever laid down an account for anything other than what our prime minister likes to say, which is that everything has been going through his office. Well, as if that's enough. And we have to ask ourselves, are we a country that has democracy, and Parliament and citizens who have elected their own representatives, or are we some strange state in which life and death, the closure of entire economic branches, the restriction of the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of citizens, is decided in the Office of Prime Ministers? Of course we're looking for a report from the Commandant and it's urgent. Not there in January and not there when HDZ decided to do so, although of course my cry when HDZ is at stake will hardly be heard. It'll be exactly what they want, because they've brought us right where we are, to the bottom. Croatia is also in battle with the coronary virus as well as the economic consequences of the crisis again the worst student in the European Union by mortality, and dealing with the crisis and by economic downturn. Croatia's government and its party chain headquarters through this crisis lead us chaotically. So chaotic to see with your eyes, believe that we pay for it with human lives. And of course we're asking for the report of this Joint Chiefs of Staff and Government to come before the Parliament. Croatia is among the worst in the European Union by the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, it is not weird considering the state of health system preparation for the autumn wave of the pandemic, but it will be the topic of our tomorrow debate which I am sure will also be like this in the late evening. No wonder, given the selective politically motivated regulation of certain measures, some are not allowed to sell coffee on a coffee shop window, and others can have 250 people standing in a closed area for an hour. And there, that's why I'm looking for the Staff report. This crisis and the behaviour of the Prime Minister, the Government and the Staff have clearly shown one thing. For them, the Croatian Parliament, and therefore Croatian citizens do not exist. Long after the end of this crisis, it will be debated how the Constitution was trampled, how the Parliament and all of us who represent the citizens of Croatia were thrown aside. I do not wish to say at all that every decision was bad and that many of them would not have received support in the Assembly that the HDZ had any respect for the Constitution of its own country to which it so often is called. But most of the decisions that concerned the people of this country and determined their lives and existences significantly should not have been taken without debate here in this place and it is unfortunate that this circumvention of the Parliament is happening all the time with the support and blessing of MPs from the majority. Of course, not only should we have a crumb of respect for the Constitution, institutions and citizens of our own. We should also have an idea, a plan, a programme, a strategy, elaborate scenarios of developments and appropriate answers to each of these possible scenarios. Of course, neither the government, nor the headquarters have, nor do they care about it at all, and I'm afraid they're not capable of such a thing. Well, Croatia is not by chance the worst in almost all the disciplines in which this country can be measured with others. As they lead us in everything else, so, unfortunately, they lead us to the crown. One more thing I want to point out, and I am immeasurably disturbed by the behaviour of the Prime Minister, the Government and the Staff, is to call for the Constitutional Court's ruling on the measures. The HDZ has begun to use the verdict as if the Constitutional Court had given several concrete situations and approval of anything that might come to their mind, bad, stupid, undemocratic, reckless, headless and tailless, whatever they decide can because the Constitutional Court there recently made a decision. Well, he can't. After 5 months of waiting, the Constitutional Court rejected proposals for the initiation of a procedure for assessing compliance with several decisions with the Constitution and the law, as these decisions were already out of force or substantially amended, and the applicants did not state the constitutional right of relevant reasons for the Constitutional Court to assess whether to initiate the constitutional assessment procedure. In doing so, I must stress that I have no intention of polluting with the Constitutional Court, but that decision does not say that the measures were in accordance with the Constitution and the law. What this decision even less says was that these measures were good, useful, exchanges and most appropriate for achieving the goal. This, of course, is the last one in a series... that the HDZ is used to violate democracy in Croatia is not interested. They every day, we hear that decision they use as some crown argument that everything they do is the best, that no one else has the right nor to ask a question let alone criticize, even as we saw the other day and if you are a member of the government's health council for the crown. We ask that the Government and the Staff come before the Parliament. We ask that citizens and citizens of Croatia clearly tell us what they were doing, that they are even more clear about why they did what they were doing, to explain to us how we are again at the bottom of Europe with their perfect management of the crisis and about the disease and the economy. What we're asking for is to present us with possible scenarios of event development and answers for each of these possible scenarios. We ask that decisions on the restriction of human rights and freedoms are made in accordance with the Constitution of our country. In the first situation when the crisis occurred, we showed that we have an authoritative, non-democratic authority whose constitution is a dead letter on paper. I am colleagues and colleagues and dear citizens of Croatia concerned that we have to ask instead of doing this on our own. And I'm not surprised at all, unlike our prime minister, that in Parliament almost every day, there have been situations where the entire opposition comes together regardless of the world's and other differences. We have found ourselves in a new situation, that we must defend the Constitution of this country, its laws and the Parliament in which we represent the citizens. So what would be minimum would be if the government came before this House and we had finally in this House a debate and a report from the Staff. But what's really depressing is that we, as opposition MPs, need to look for it. That we should be looking for this by the end of 2020, which we will all rather forget right away, and I don't really want to say anymore that we live in a new time. I want this time to pass, I want us to go back to the old times where we won't be afraid of an unknown disease. But what we always have to want and we always have to keep in mind is the Constitution, it's the Parliament, it's that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to get answers. Mr. Prime Minister, you don't have to come here and give answers to our MPs. What you must give, you must give to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24279	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24280	Thank you. Like last night, when we had a debate about an investigative commission that asked for an opposition to the influence of politics on the work of independent institutions, there are no heroes. Here we see this former minister who's only known for buying perfumes at the expense of the ministry. He's taking pictures of me now, so I guess he's sending it to the centre of Andrej Plenkovic, so this is where the debate continues. So that's what Prime Minister Plenkovic knows, he's keeping an eye on everything, everything from his attic is keeping an eye on what's going on here in the Croatian Parliament. You don't need to send him any photos, Mr. Pavic. It would be a good idea to get involved with some kind of replica on this debate, or do you agree with everything we've brought here? And what we've brought here is very dangerous for you and for this government and for the Chief of Staff who manages this crisis. It is quite clear, and this is becoming more obvious to the Croatian public that the Staff has executed all the ends of their hands, that no longer knows who is drinking, and who is paying, or who is paying, Croatian citizens pay, that such a conflict is within the government's advice that simply Croatian citizens no longer know what is happening. And all we're asking for is for Mr. Pavic to file a report on the work of the Staff. We're the only country in which it didn't happen. I had to collect signatures so that this point would come to debate here in the Croatian Parliament after more than three months. And I'm nodding you fellow Habib not to accidentally report for the replica, because it's quite clear that you don't want to discuss this at all. You'd rather push everything under the carpet, but when you have to report what you've been doing, the measures you've been making, the mistakes you've made this whole time. We will not stop warning about what is bad, but we will also be responsible and constructive opposition that will offer solutions. We have also done this to the state budget and to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and through these conclusions, which we are discussing today, which we sent to the procedure almost 3 months ago, but also the conclusion on the purchase of medical equipment that counterpart Selak Rasdić has today referred to in the procedure. And I know you'd rather not discuss corruption. This psychosis that is present in both the media and the public, unfortunately and among the Croatian people, even suits you, but that you are not talking about your failures, but about how the government is acting responsibly. Public service topics were like I said last night, for example, a national stadium. That's what you want to talk about, about topics that are important, they're very important. That there is no crisis in both health and economic and what the ministers are telling us, Mr. Pavic, your former colleagues. You slipped a little bit so you weren't good enough to be in this government anymore. What does Cooric tell us? That those who light the lanterns in front of the Ministry of Economy that it's a morbid move. Well, he should take care of entrepreneurs and craftsmen right now. It's not his to take care of the health aspect of this crisis. There is Minister Beros, there is also Prime Minister Plenkovic, and there is also your famous Staff. It is Minister Coric's task to take care of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. And he says that their candle burning, people who are worried about their business, are worried about whether they will be able to keep jobs in their crafts, in their businesses he says it's morbid that candles light in fear because they don't know what the future holds. These are messages coming from your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24281	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24282	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, a respected colleague has been injured in Article 238, paragraph 1. talks about a subject that is not at all the subject of debate. Point 5 degrades and insults individual representatives in this House. And point 6 of its conduct deviates from the general rules in this House. My colleague, you've become an obvious commentator. Otherwise, the Champions League is currently on channel two of HRT, but you're doing great here. So you're commenting on what's happening right now. Don't stick to the subject we're discussing. You're talking about everything but what isn't the subject of your conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24283	Okay. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24284	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, I raised my hand. ... He can't have a hand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How from the other room? I'm in the hall, I'm not in the Parliament. ... I'm not in the conference room. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, I'm not here. I don't have a bat. I can't sit down because you threw us out here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24285	Please, Mr. Grmoya. Well, you'll have a chance at Thunderbolt. [[Grmo's incursion: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24286	I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I raised my hand. [[Let's go. Here you go.]] Okay, he can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24287	Here you go. ... The club of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24288	I thank the vice president of the Croatian National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, the most persistent who watch us via YouTube. I have to touch the fact that it's really scandalous that the topic that's vital to our citizens starts at 8:00 p.m. and it's not the first time. Remember Interpelition, Krš Padjana, the trust of Minister Ćorić, the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, yesterday, here today is how convenient it is that these topics that interest our citizens come to order at a time when there is no more media. But somehow it comes to our citizens. They stay informed again. Well, these attempts are all kind of inappropriate. But well, that's how it is, and then we're discussing form, it's, it's not, it takes once a month, is that from almost three months ago, a conclusion that says that in 30 days, the government should, so would the government or the Staff as if it weren't the same. So who's in Command? Minister Beros, Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Bozinovic. It's more and more like what's an older chicken or an egg. It doesn't matter to us. What's the problem? Why would it be a problem to come to this high house once a month and file a report? If there is time for press, if this spring had time to give interviews to a prominent health journal called "Gloria" who read very health care professionals, why not every month the Government, the Stacer chooses us anyway, because all these decisions are made by the Government anyway. It has already been repeated several times by the Prime Minister, so it doesn't matter who comes once a month, submits a report. And yet I think that the Croatian National Assembly should be informed in the course of the epidemic because there is too much uncertainty that we cannot influence. But at least then we can know what's going on, what's going on, and not listen to it on the news, so this one said this, this one said that. Let us at least once put ourselves in the position of those to whom these measures apply, for example entrepreneurs. For days they listened that stricter measures would be gone, and then suddenly a slight closure which for some like the caterers means actually the key in the lock, zero income, and the costs are going. Costs of rents, utility services, directorial costs and measures are brought in, and at the same time there are no packages to help the economy, but there are negotiations, bargaining, something we're used to looking at in Arab markets – I'm this big, so we're kind of in the middle. How do you work in such an environment? How do our entrepreneurs plan when they don't know what's waiting for them? And that's why we're here today and let's be honest with each other. So this is a new situation not just for us, for more or less the whole world. We have a new virus that makes us study and adapt to walking. The truth of will and hard to stay consistent in such a situation. It is difficult to maintain trust and no wonder that trust in the Staff and decisions of the Staff is less and less day by day. I will not look too much at and repeat what we all know, as has already been said many times about how measures have been applied selectively, as there have been contradictory statements. I'm not playing any videos. We all know that spring wasn't enough equipment and it was the way it was. We're learning to walk. I won't look back on it, but it should still be said that in a few months from us not having to wear a mask we got up to 500 kn fine if you don't wear a mask. We all know, too, and everyone knows the case that my colleague Bulj mentioned to a farmer who got a ticket because he was driving a barn to his field. I'm asking a question here now. What happened to high-ranking officials who were in the spring closure or how the lockdown was offended, but I like Croatian words because this is the Croatian National Assembly, so they went to an illegal catering facility that we would call in Slavonia an obscenity one basement bartium, and the media called this place a club I guess sounds nicer? 'Cause that reminds me of those clubs in the west where the elite go. But it wasn't about any elite, it was about the company that was clearly being put above the law and the measures that applied to all of us. They had no need to even apologize to the public or at least offer to resign. And I'm interested, and here I am now asking whether at least one of them is being punished for violating the measures because they were being violated. They did. If it isn't, why are we surprised that the citizens no longer trust the Staff and who would trust them after all? What is crucial in these situations is three things trust, responsibility and unity. Trust has been violated, on account of everyone calling us, members of the Staff, media, known faces from small screens, let's act responsibly, keep a distance or a distance. That's what sparrows sing on branches. But perhaps we should start by ourselves politicians, public figures and promote not only words but also by our work and example the responsibility we ask of the citizens. Often, this situation and counterpart Zekanovic compared it to the large Serbian aggression of the 1990s and tonight. As someone who spent the entire time of that aggression in the war - affected area in Osijek, they can only tell him and don’t do that to everyone else. At that time, we had a relationship. These two situations don't have too much similarities and the fact is that at that time we had a commonality at all levels, and today we don't even have that community in this House of Commons. Let's be honest with ourselves, to the citizens. The fact is, my colleague Bacic spoke a little bit about this union. So we've been handing out last week, handing out the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, how many votes were there for? So we in the Homeland Movement have always said what is good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we will support regardless of which side it comes from. We can divide by party belongings, we have ideological differences, world view. But when something is important, what is important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and what is good for them, we will always support it. I find it hard to say that it's kind of hard for me to agree that you accept the hand when I remember the situation when the budget was passed, when you rejected the amendment's opposition as on the current tape. Well, 300 amendments. In those 300, there was not one that was meaningful, justified, valid, so they were all thrown away like that. There's no common ground, unfortunately, so it's not even among our citizens. In this situation where we really need it, because this is an unprecedented situation, and I would just remind that 75 opposition representatives represent thousands of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Keep that in mind every time you refuse an opposition proposal. This conclusion is as meaningful as that report amendment was every month and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24289	Next debate on behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24290	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Sanader, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, colleagues, colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, dear Croatian peoples. I was talking here in this room with my colleagues and then she asks me if one person is hard for you? As hard as it will be, it is not hard to speak at all, fight for the Croatian people where the Croatian people chose us and sent us to be their voice. My impression is that at least a part of the Croatian people thinks he's been left behind, and I think it's not good for anyone to be alone and I think it's not good for the Croatian people to think that he's been abandoned, that he's not thinking about him enough, that he's not focused on everyone and the rulings and the opposition enough. It seems to me that we're not listening to each other or at least we're not listening enough. Looks to me like some trenches have been dug up. I don't like it, and then it got into those trenches deep and there's no way out. We stand, we shoot each other's words, of course you never gave God any other way and I don't like it either. I don't suppose there should be a criterion of double standards. counterpart Selak Rasdic warned very clearly that from the beginning of the crown crisis nine months ago the whole market was reset, that there was a serious threat and corruption not only to health. And we still don't have the information how the equipment was supplied, how much the equipment was paid, what was going on. Take it easy. And what's the secret? And then good colleague Marija Selak Rasudić noticed that she was still in September 2018. The UN Security Council has marked corruption as a security problem, and we are today hiding. I don't know why. I've spoken before, and I want to talk one more time, when a little man is trampled, some of my Riveraan, the owner of a cafe, a little healthy food store, stepped on. Watch out now, so maybe I could say classic oxymoron. I'm a man in a small store behind a plexiglas like this. So we can and the people can't. There's control, 30,000 kunas of punishment for not wearing masks behind the plexiglas was a man standing. And what's an absurd law then wasn't passed. How can anyone be punished for anything in the Republic of Croatia, in our country if the law is not passed. Based on what? Every lawyer knows well that in fact those penalties that were before the law was passed are unconstitutional and unfounded. What the Croatian public sees is that there's a lot of fighting, there's a lot of generosity, there's a lot of pride, and there's not a lot of criteria for everything, and it hurts. It hurts the kid in elementary school, it hurts the kid in high school, it hurts the student, it hurts the man who has his own company, it hurts the employees. Anyone who feels that the criteria are not equal, and the criteria should be equal for every citizen in the Republic of Croatia wherever you are, wherever you are dealing with, should create criteria for every equal in our society. And this one here tonight I don't know if it's the only thing we can do as an opposition. I've been here a few months and I'm still learning. But we're giving you an appeal, so don't be arrogant, don't be arrogant. Old is the wisdom that would burn it now down, and he that is down riseth up. And so if anything, then it's because of that truth, and that's even math, let's be reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24291	We're going to individual debates. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24292	Thank you very much. Mr. Bukarica's chairman, you should have given your colleague, Mr. President of Bucharest, the opportunity to take advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And that would be correct and concrete of you as chairman at the moment of your colleague Bukarica's visit to you Mr. clearly does not lead the session this time. I would just briefly say that this debate is important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia where it is a proposal that the last six months, i.e. from the pandemic itself when the Parliament gave power to the Staff, to the National Civil Protection Centre, to be at the very least correct to tell people, to our people that the ruling would not accept what would be normal. I suggest once again to the Prime Minister who is here now, Pharaoh, in essence, you must not behave differently, to bring the robots here, that we do not come, to vote these laws of distinguished colleagues, former ministers. I think that would be the correct thing for citizens, and the least cost would be, not spending masks, disinfections, travel expenses and everything else. So it's unnecessary to discuss this important topic that interests our citizens not only health workers but people are afraid for their existence, you're terrified. In fact, you've brought people into confusion from school, education to everything. In fact, we see that there has been a change in Parliament, that a colleague of Bucharest is the chairman so that since the chairman of his fellow Bucharest session as a parliamentary representative with a large number of votes elected in this Parliament, our people, it would be good to introduce robots to vote very simply on Fridays what they want to vote on. Because senseless democracy is obviously in the Republic of Croatia or the people will finally see. Or there is that greater danger that they will move away from this crisis people when they see how we behave in the Croatian Parliament. Of the 300 amendments of the MOST Club 150 amendments to the budget, including measures for the social threat, for doctors supplement, the medical staff did not accept it. Here's my colleague Bujevic, as you couldn't, Maja Grba Bujevic asks a colleague how you voted as the head of this Staff in uniform, you walked with Beroshe, you caught the virus, the people trusted you. How could you vote against a covid supplement for healthcare professionals, for your colleagues who have given MOST as an amendment. Now let's get behind me. She's coming soon, so she can explain it to people. I don't know. Maybe colleagues of the Habibs are catching up the same virus headquarters when you bought points to get votes and take over power. But you'll be responsible for this negligence because you haven't set the criteria. You haven't set the criteria! In Split you appointed a home for the elderly and powerless, in the home of a man who had lost only the Omis elections, he had no other criteria. I welcome all healthcare professionals, but let them know that their colleague Bujevic did not support the addition to health and health care professionals in the health system. Well, for example, you didn't support those older ones you invited should be our protector to the receiver that you're changing now that the receiver has now supported that... that we subsidize it as a state to these people through the vouchers or others. [[You don't understand.]] Even though by now whenever the recipient of the state changed, it flew in. But now in the crown crisis, it doesn't have to. You don't support our amendments at all, no proposals, no constructive proposals, no reason why, can you explain? I don't know why you don't support it. Or should you suggest, rewrite the amendment and suggest it here? It's very simple and so it'll be constructive. Otherwise I can put free robots here, the simplest thing would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24293	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Maja Grba-Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24294	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Bull hurt Article 238. Insulting you as a parliamentary representative by calling Mr. Bukarica the Vice President of the Parliament. That's what I think he deserves a warning. He also made many, many false statements. Among other things, he brought up the truth about the salary allowance. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to increase 10% for employees working in COVID centres and we all welcomed that from the ruling party, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24295	Okay. It was a replica. You're getting a warning. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24296	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is regrettable that on such an important topic, three representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, that in the absence of arguments, Bacic had to leave and withdraw. I hope he comes back and replicates something. But there's really nothing to say about what we said, because it's clear that no normal person can justify the fact that since March of the month the Staff has not filed a report or that the Government has not submitted the report on the work of the Staff, and the problem is a lot. We testify to them every day. We are witnessing conflicts in the Scientific Council of Government, witnessing that the government thanks scientists means no matter what I think of a particular scientist in this Council as what they suggest. But the fact is that only by listening to others can we come up with the best solutions. Not by listening to just what the epidemiologists are saying, I've been representing it from the beginning, but from listening to all those who have something to say about all aspects of this crisis that I'm not just repeating the health character. What is currently happening will affect the standard of our citizens, their lives, their purchasing power, their jobs, and that should also be taken into account. Remember that right after the crisis broke out, we were looking for a write-off, not a delay. You first proposed a postponement for the donations given by our entrepreneurs and craftsmen. In the end, you accepted that. Here's a colleague of Bacic's. He heard me. So he's finally back in the assembly. And what we want to say from this place again clearly, it's time to file an account. Please file an account for what you've been doing this whole time. I want you to file a bill for what was bad. I want you to file an account for what was good, and there was a good one. So we're not some kind of critic who just criticizes the opposition. There were good things, and there's got to be a confession, and there's bad things to be said for. Not now to talk about how the citizens are guilty because right now it's a bad situation. I can't blame the citizens when it's a bad situation, and you can be responsible when the situation is good. So, you'd pick up the trophies and then maybe like we have a situation with Dinam, you'd get rid of the debts and boast about the glorious past. So that's not working. We can't agree to that. So you have to say what was good, which was bad and based on which criteria you have introduced certain measures and what we need to achieve. Because citizens will be much easier to endure these measures if you tell them people, respect the measures, be patient, when we reach these and those figures we will go into mitigation. People don't know anything. They ask me on the street, they hope more that I don't know the cafes, the catering facilities might open for New Year's Eve because you haven't given any criteria. They think you're gonna do it, give in to measures I don't know how people might celebrate Christmas and New Year's. We need to make it clear to them how long they need to be patient and what our goal is. Mr. Bacicu, what's the target? What do we want to accomplish to go into possible mitigation measures? Or what situation does it take to strengthen our measures? To this day you have not told the Croatian public, and therefore the mistrust in you, in your government and in the Staff falls. We've seen that now about 30% of citizens trust the Staff. It's a HDZ rating, 1% maybe better than the current HDZ rating, and you were on a much bigger rating without me talking about the Staff. You've been on a bigger rating in these elections you've been pushing at the time of the epidemic to maintain power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24297	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24298	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to say at first I was pretty confused at least the first good half hour, maybe an hour because I looked at the materials for this session. Therefore, the half-page MOST material which speaks of the conclusion that the government is in charge of submitting a report on the work of the Staff. In view of what was initially said here, what everything was said, what all the points were about, and what was the content and introduction on behalf of the promoter but also the other MPs from the ranks of the promoters, I was forced to even look at the websites whether I missed something, whether I was looking at something wrong. But obviously I was wrong. Someone here mentioned shame, so now I'm wondering if this is the way I'm gonna say it again, as well as that impelation that you've filed here who should be ashamed of? So some of you here mention, obviously they don't even know the contents of what they've submitted, mention that the government is in charge of this conclusion that suggests once a month giving a report. Then just before someone else on behalf of the promoter says that if you don't adopt this they'll put an amendment to their own proposal. I must admit that the question on whose side should be shame. It's about the reality show that worked because it had presses regularly and informed the public about the movements, the number of infected, the number of unfortunately deceased citizens. And on the same side, there's now criticism that there's no report. So, one side doesn't fit if the Staff reports daily what's going on in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, you are now looking for a report and watch it in your conclusion once. So, to file a report once. And since Friday, you have the conclusion proposed by the ruling majority that three times a year a report is submitted. So this conclusion of yours, as my colleague Bacic said on behalf of the HDZ Club, is consummated, contained in this one. What I least expected was that you as a proposing, given the conclusion that was adopted last Friday, would reject this proposal, or withdraw, because it was consumed, because it was covered. What is even more surprising to me is the conclusion adopted last Friday by 77 MPs and representatives of this House. So one above most, the ruling majority, so one that apparently objectively ruled that the conclusion was good. 15 were against, 36 abstentions. And now, all of a sudden, you're proposing a conclusion that makes it less binding for the government to deliver a report. I have to admit it's very strange. You mention here, that is, the Constitutional Court's decision to misread it here, to interpret it in the way it fits the ruling majority. Last week, I was in the debate, and several representatives from the HDZ spoke precisely about the Constitutional Court's decision not because it suits us, but because of the fact that the public knows what the Constitutional Court said. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear that only this High House, the Croatian Parliament has the right to decide whether to act on the basis of Article 16 as it has done or what you say all the time but do not propose the basis of Article 17 and actually activate the state of emergency. The Constitutional Court also states in its decision that the Staff is a professional, operational and co-ordinated body for the implementation of measures and activities. The Constitutional Court has also made several solutions, i.e. a decision concerning the measures that you are questioning here from protective masks, from self-insulation. Very clearly said your position, very clearly. The Constitutional Court also made clear its position on the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, he made his position very clear. This is all you're saying here, you're asking in principle the Constitutional Court's decision in the softest way, that's pretty worrying what I can say. There was a lot being said here, but none of what you're saying here is even the subject of this point. So, the subject of this point is half of your site where you're asking to be tasked by the government to file a report on the work of the Staff. We solved it last Friday, as much as the government will do it three times a year in the time you're looking for it. But three times, not once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24299	A few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24300	Dear fellow Habiban, you obviously don't listen well or they put in a record that you just reproduce without any understanding. This conclusion doesn't have to be some kind of excerpt, it's just the conclusion that the government is obliged to file a report on the work of the Staff. He doesn't have a lot of sense. It's just a matter of will if the government wants to do it. And this was made three months ago this conclusion and we asked the government to file a report. And under our pressure, you brought three times a year. And when? It's only last January, and we see what the situation is. We're asking you to do it now. And we asked three months ago to do it now, and of course everything people think about the work of the Staff and the Government will be presented in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24301	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24302	Thank you very much. I told you a little while ago, since every five minutes you answer for a word and comment actually on what anyone is doing in this assembly, which is who's speaking in a very unusual way that on HRT2 the Champions League transmission, since you took the role of commentator here today in this assembly. And as for your conclusion, I will repeat. So it's just a simple clock. I would really be ashamed of something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24303	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24304	The esteemed representative of the Habian has presented a series of false and twisted thesis. He insults this submission by calling it a warlock. I guess he should have ten pages, one simple conclusion. Are you ashamed that most of you in nine months have not filed a report with the Bureau on the work of the Staff? It's up to you. You're telling the truth that we talked about this as if a report had to be filed on this once a month. No one's ever talked about it. Then you put something in our mouths that Mr. Bacic mentioned as hypothetical to put the amendment on this proposal itself. So we didn't say that. We never talked about the need to activate Article 17. It's hypothetical when you haven't already activated Article 17. Why didn't you follow the law you were supposed to follow? I find it funny for you to compare one-way communication where the Staff has written numbers and stories every day with something that is to be submitted where the Staff has become the number and story every day with something that is the submission of reports to the Croatian Assembly, whose representative you are also humiliating and your own dignity in doing so as a representative. You're 35 days short. Well, in Varazdin, ten people died a day from the crown. That could be 350 dead people in Varazdin and we're waiting for us to have no reports or parameters?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24305	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24306	Thank you very much. As for the amendment to this proposal, that's what your colleague here just told you on behalf of the Homeland Movement or whoever, that's exactly what. That's not what I said. That's what my colleague said. That's what my colleague said. As far as Article 16, 17, I don't know what's not clear? So I'll tell you if it's no problem I have more copies I'll give you the Constitutional Court Decision so read or consult with Mrs. Selak Rasdic. I think she's well adopted that matter as far as I've been able to tell. And as for the City of Varazdin, I ask you not to spread unnecessary panic in public space. The situation is complex, but not in this way that you've shown here now, and that's not good. It's not good for you to disturb the public and pour oil on the fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24307	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24308	Article 238 of the Insultation. I gave the exact information that 10 people died in Varazdin. 35 days is potential because it doesn't potentially reduce 350 dead people in Varazdin alone, and you don't have a problem with waiting another 35 days even though it's a lot more days, because we filed this on 16.09.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24309	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24310	My dear colleague may have misunderstood, but please correct me if I am. Did you really suggest in your presentation at one point that the daily presses of the Staff on the number of newly infected and dead should be treated as a report on the work of the Staff, the effectiveness of the measures they have taken, the way in which different decisions are made, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24311	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24312	I went first and foremost to the contradiction said by my colleague Rasdic here, where he called the press headquarters reality show and I was saying that if the headquarters is talking about the data on the number of infected, the number of deaths simultaneously responds to all the journalistic issues or what the public is interested in, in some way gives a report on the current state of the epidemic. I don't see that I said anything wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24313	Injury of Rules of Procedure Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24314	I ask the chairman to listen carefully and not give me a warning, because I will be very precise. 328. I'm offended that something was put in my mouth that I absolutely didn't say. So I'm not saying that presses are reality show. I didn't use the reality show. I was just talking about tracking reports from Italy to England, and they don't have every day press headquarters after which 4, 5 members of headquarters go to every national television log and so nine months, it confuses the public. So, saying reality show for the press headquarters is very offensive and I didn't do it. Listen to the tape.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24315	You have a warning, because you have called, you have called for article 328 that does not exist in this Rules of Procedure. ... Next time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have the next replica of the distinguished representative Maja Grba-Bujevic. Just to warn you, if there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, then there's going to be word confiscation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24316	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Habiban, you said correctly by quoting from the law that the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia is a professional, operational and co-ordinated body established and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Given the legal, and you're a lawyer, I'm asking you nicely to define it once again exactly as the law says who founded who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24317	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24318	Thank you very much. It's true, my colleague. That's exactly what I said. What I was quoting, I was quoting the Constitutional Court's decision to speak of the Civil Protection Staff. Good thing you reminded me of what I did not actually say in my presentation, which is that the Constitutional Court also actually spoke in its decision about the legitimacy of the objective and the principle of proportionality, which was also raised here in question, which also found that the unquestionable legitimacy of the objective of protecting people's health and lives, and also the proportionality established in that second decision where individual measures were also taken and found that there was no need for agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24319	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24320	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Habian, here we are, discussing late in the evening about this warlock that you yourself have said the conclusion that is brief, which only requires that it be reported here. In fact, he's been discussing something else all night, which is that we'd like to have that two-thirds majority decide. All countries in the European Union have transferred this to operational bodies. If there was a magic wand, we'd have found a solution. We had to learn to live with the coronary virus, to deal with the health of the nation as well as the economy. We have a situation that 800,000 jobs have been saved. Unemployment almost didn't grow. Employment has grown slightly. Therefore, the government’s measures are heading in this direction. Let's fight. The vaccine will come, and until then we have preserved as many jobs as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24321	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24322	Thank you very much. A colleague of Pavic's just like that, and you mentioned this part that is also important. So, everything the government has done, and here today there's been a lot of noise, that she hasn't actually done for this time for the economy. Therefore, nearly 8 billion kunas invested in the economy should be mentioned. So aid measures to entrepreneurs. It should also be said that by successfully leading in the first part of this pandemic and the tourist season was actually above expectations, almost 60%. It is also worth mentioning today the HAMAG BICRO line, which has therefore come out to lend entrepreneurs up to 380 thousand kuna. Interest rate 0.25%. As we have heard from my colleague Maya, therefore, about the increase in salaries of doctors who are struggling with this pandemic and with people who are infected, affected by this coronary virus. Therefore, it should also be considered. However, this was not the case today, for this is clearly not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24323	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24324	After this historic speech by my predecessor, how many deceptions, misinformation and after my colleague Rasudic said to ask his Mrs. Rasudiæ Selak alluding to her partner. Ask your partner or partner about this condition, you Mr. Pavić, and let us know what they say about this problem. Surely they are concerned in your Varazdin or from where Mr. Pavić, Mr. Minister of perfume and good wine, is a good drop. You mentioned to your colleague that the daily press conference held by the Staff is a report on the state of the epidemic. The second is the report on the state of the epidemic at the daily level, and the second is the Report of the Staff to be given to the Croatian Parliament. They represent these numbers as much as they've been tested, how many are sick, positive, which are tendencies essentially, so we're talking about a completely different context. Secondly, you've made one lie, a lie and a deception that the Most is seeking this demand from the club MOST and the opposition, to demand that every six months a report be given. That's incorrect. Comrade Habib, I don't know, I know you're conscious of that. It was requested three months ago, to be given a report from March to the moment we made the request it was in nine months, two months ago to give the Staff's report for that period. It's easy to read. And it's very simple. You say half the page. Which, like you, we should prescribe laws every day, re-nounch Croatian legislation so that we can boast about how well you handled Angela Merkel, Tajani, Tusk and others. It is a very simple conclusion that it gives us a report from the Staff for this period from the third month when the Staff received power from the Croatian Parliament until the moment we made the request and it was in the 9 months before two months ago, 15.9. seems to me. And it's... The deception and the lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And don't go on the way of your colleague Bačić. He, the good godfather, has this line with Seks, with Šeparović from the Constitutional Court, is that line that is connected and do not use that line because you speak inaccuracy. Everyone who can read, I have reached a conclusion so you will see that all the time Bačić, Habian, everyone here who appears essentially amounts to lies, lies, misinformation about this serious topic, epidemiological and health first but also economic. You have not accepted any amendments to the budget. There were 300 amendments to the opposition, and I gave myself 70 amendments. A fellow MOST also gave an amendment to the law where you amended the Law on the Protection of the public against the epidemic, where you imposed sanctions without any criteria. Shamelessly without any criteria or goals. What goal has been reached for you, what has the Chief of Staff told you? Are you ashamed? No goals, no criteria. We've given the amendment objectives and some criteria when you cut, when you increase, which is that number, or the measures will be mitigated or increased, nothing. You've lost your way. You've executed yourself. And Andrej Plenkovic said in the fifth month before the election was called, the Croatian government beat the coronary virus, Andrej, Andrej. Before Ivo, Ivo Sanader, Jadranka, Karamarko, cheers! No one knows them anymore. Well, don't act like it. This isn't just your country. And others have created this country, they love this country. Well, they don't even agree with you in some things, but this is the problem with all people. And Parliament must not be detained by a fellow Habib in the voting machine of anyone, nor Andrej Plenkovic. I know you appreciate him. He's your president. I'm not getting into it? But this article and conclusion is quite different from what you said. Don't fall for the crap that sets you up with Branko Bačić, his games because he's reaching out to his teacher, his teacher Vladimir Seks, the godfather in these pranks. For one day the opposition shall be power, and ye shall be opposition. So don't make fun of the proposals that are constructive, which create good grounds for taking responsibility together and solving problems or trying to solve problems that we have because of covids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24325	There's a replica, a distinguished representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24326	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, I'd like to apostrophe this part when you mentioned a report on the current state of the pandemic. So, counterpart Habian made it clear that the daily presses of the Staff should be considered a report on the work of the Staff because they are the report on the current work of the epidemic. I guess this is the report on the current state of the pandemic report, introduced to the success of the pandemic. The report on the work of the Staff should be a report on how successful this Staff is fighting the pandemic, in which way it makes decisions, whether these measures are successful or not, to whom it goes to the Scientific Council of Government and who it does not listen, and then out of the Council. That's the kind of report we're looking for. I don't care how many people die every day, we get it every day from the media, we don't need the Staff for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24327	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24328	And even in this part of daily human reporting that it would be sometimes too much of a head start even the Staffs of County and Local Self-Government put on suits, metals acts as if generals, who to catch here literally acted there was a virus of 120 kilos in it, we're running after it until the declaration of victory when he declared the victory of Andrej Plenkovic, when he said we won, this government beat the coronary virus which was a lie and deception only until he got the elections to trick the people. That's all he did. Because of the election, he risked the lives of Croatian people and that's embarrassing. Of course there's a difference daily reporting can go through the media, not on the press, and maybe that's the choice of Staff I'm not getting involved in. My personal position is less important, and my second report to the Croatian Parliament on all measures, criteria, goals, whether they have been reached and what results are these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24329	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. "The Head of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia is a professional, operational and coordinating body established and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, consisting of executives from the central authorities of the state administration, operational forces of the civil protection system and other legal persons of particular importance for the civil protection system," I quote the Law. The concept of civil protection and the Civil Protection Headquarters is not a novelty of this government, nor of a hockey body founded because of the COVID-19 epidemic, because the Civil Protection Centre has been functioning since the very beginning of the independence of the Republic of Croatia if we have forgotten in its most difficult days during the Homeland War, until today. The basis for the establishment and appointment of today's Civil Protection Staff is the Civil Protection System Act, which was proposed in 2015 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in one other composition and in July 2015 by the Assembly by the majority in the same composition as the leading political forces. In 2018 and this year, the law is better decorated, but it is clear from the above that the concept of the Civil Protection Staff is not a one-time project of this government, nor is this parliamentary majority created to address the emerging situation, but rather a body recognised as necessary from the beginning of the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia and from all political actors adopted. The headquarters of civil protection of the Republic of Croatia in the wider, but also in the narrow composition, has continued to operate, and during 2020 the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed additional members who, because of their expertise and skills and work in institutions that have exceptional importance in the fight against the epidemic, are needed for the best possible work of the Staff. Recognizing the need to improve the legal framework, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act, which gave the Croatian Civil Protection Staff the authority to make decisions and instructions in order to protect the lives and health of citizens, preserve property, economic activities and the environment and to bring legal persons and citizens into line. That's what the parliamentary deputies voted for. The headquarters showed its operationality and purpose, because immediately after the entry into force of the Act's supplementation, it came about with decision-making. So far, the Civil Protection Centre has made more than 240 decisions both for the territory of the Republic of Croatia and for the units of the regional administration and self-government. In this response to the epidemic, the same headquarters mobilised 60 objects and over 70 legal entities and mobilised over 18,000 civil protection personnel to respond to this epidemic. In addition to the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Republic of Croatia, civil protection units of the regional self-government that established continuous cooperation have been established and have joined the adoption of measures adapted to the state and needs of the field in each unit of the regional self-government. Such a decentralised approach allows greater flexibility and quality to combat the COVID-19 epidemic. A confirmation of the constitutionality and legality of individual decisions, including the work of the Staff itself, gave the Constitutional Court when it took a clear view that the work and decisions of the Staff were in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since the very beginning of the fight with the COVID-19 epidemic, the headquarters has taken care of the acquisition of protective and medical equipment to combat COVID-19 which, as we know, was and is now provided in sufficient quantities. The consequences of not getting the equipment would be terrible. It's final. The Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia has justified and demonstrated the need for its establishment by means of its current action, and by taking measures in due time and making decisions that were most appropriate to combat the COVID-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24331	We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24332	Thank you, dear Vice President. You've been a member of the Staff, and I know for a fact from the very firsthand that you worked actively while you were a member, I can say day and night. In your presentation, you have given an overview of the work of the Staff from its draft in history, so with a special reference to this time worked by the Staff on this COVID crisis and the MPs who demanded that they hear something and that they still have one cut of the Staff's work did not listen to this debate. But of course it's just one of my observations, and I'm asking you how you look at being called to the profession all the time, to people who know something about this problem, and at the same time everyone knows more about this work of the Staff and the measures than people who are working on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24333	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24334	Thank you, colleague Murganic. Thank you very much for that question. So when it lasted, the answer, the members of the Staff really worked from 0-24 and not just them, but the sea of one people in the background who actually gave their professional imputements either for equipment, whether to respond to the epidemic, either in, in any other way. They were in the headquarters, they were always talking about it being only epidemiologists or there was no epidemiologist, or so that our opposition said more so as to enter the people so that they could remember it as the truth. Unfortunately, that's not true. Unfortunately for them, it's not true. Indeed, there were many people working at headquarters and a large number of experts and headquarters were absolutely transparently working on all the criteria prescribed by legal and sublegal acts on staff work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24335	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24336	Thank you very much. Just as my colleague Murganic said, the profession in this assembly regarding epidemiology and Covida is you. You were heroine at the beginning when the pandemic started, you were at headquarters, thank you personally, thank you and all health workers, thank you and everyone who works with Covid, the government just knew how to reward it at the last cabinet session and thanked all health care professionals and all and the police involved. You mentioned equipment, the equipment was purchased from EU funds, tell us how important it was since we secured it, and I really don't see the need for this much anxiety of opposition in such late hours. Maybe it's because they don't get political points on this subject because the profession is you in this assembly and very clearly, you can speak competently, and the government obviously has support and citizens. in solving the crisis. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24337	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24338	Thank you, colleague Pavić, so the equipment was what was really necessary because if the protective equipment for the employees who had met with Covid patients had not been obtained in time, we would get sick health workers and then we would have no one to treat all those people who were later getting sick. That waist will surely say I'm right, those who don't want to hear it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24339	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24340	Dear colleagues of Grba Bujević, you were also a member of headquarters, so you are somehow an appropriate answer to this first question, which is... Yes, yes, as well as a former member of headquarters, you are relevant and you answer this question. [[Intruder: Can you please just make it louder, don't be angry, but I can't hear you.]] What's the problem for nine months now that the headquarters can't, that there's no report on the staff's work? That we had to look for this conclusion that we are only discussing today, and later after the escalation and the amendment that was refused to do so once a month, which is a Usus in European countries. Why so far, in your opinion, has there been no report of the headquarters of the assembly? Here, how, how do you look at it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24341	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24342	My colleague Rasdić, daily indeed, everyone who wanted to get some information was reported daily. You can't possibly say that you haven't been sufficiently informed about what's going on, I don't just think about how many people are sick, how many people are dead, how many people have been tested, but also all those measures that happened every day when they were introduced are clearly interpreted at these headquarters sessions. There are a lot of data, especially of course those that are relevant for the adoption of measures, which are epidemiologists, who have each explained why this measure has been introduced, why this measure is now being abolished, which is a tendency, which we want to, unfortunately sometimes does not reach the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24343	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24344	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, here's everything you've said nicely considering that you have a lot of experience both as an expert and as one of the members of the Civil Protection Staff, it's only a question of what it would be not to God that at the beginning of this pandemic there was no crisis or civil protection headquarters, as was the case from January 3, 2000, that until November 23, 2003, when the decision of the SDP government and the Law on Health Protection of the Civil Protection Staff were not cast out. And then there was and there was this Baxter affair, and we know everything well what happened and what were the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24345	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24346	Only at the time of the coalition government there was no Civil, Crisis Headquarters of the Ministry of Health, it was the only period when it was gone and then there was a Baxter affair where indeed due to insufficient flow and coordination of work death was determined, responsibility for the death of 23 people, which is terrible, it is even immeasurable. Fortunately, right after that, the new Health Protection Act was re-activated before this existing Health Ministry Crisis Headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24347	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24348	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, I will ask you for your opinion regarding a measure of staff that has been brought after how you stopped being a member because you are a parliamentary representative. In fact, the headquarters has made a decision not to be able to sail when it comes to sports. I'm kind of imagining that I know a little bit about it. So sailing is about sailing with a class of optimists or in one-seaters that is for children up to 15 years of age or over 15 years old, in sailing they wear a suit in which they sail, so on existing clothes, equipment the boat, they come out and the only contact they can have is with a coach who's on a rubber boat, and they're on their boat. And now it's decided that you can't sail, I can't understand it for what reason, maybe you can understand me. You can explain. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24349	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24350	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, any measure should look at her in general. So the intention of all these measures that have now been taken is to make as few people as possible in one place. So, it's safe not to actually get a wider virus, that's certainly why you're thinking, there's no special sailing listed, I about sailing I have to admit I don't know anything, but sailing than you need to look at it as a smaller gathering of people. So, I'm sure that there are more kids who get together on sailing, too, but I'm not sure that it went strictly sailing like such a sport, but that it's actually covered that children get as few groups as possible so that they don't eventually bring their houses and that they can protect the elderly and all those who are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24351	Thank you. Now we're going to make a vent for epidemiological reasons. We'll continue at 23 and 5. It's 10:00.56. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 23.06 HOURS]] On behalf of Proposer Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24353	Here on behalf of the promoter, I must say after my colleague Bujevic that I am truly sorry that it is not clear to me at all, understanding that she did not have all the information at the time, but that she could say 24.2. I will only let a statement say once again that we can hear her well.../The speaker included a tone recording: "There really is no need for us to buy these masks and walk with them around the city, that we are walking with them to work because it will not prevent this virus, so the mask will not protect us from entering the virus. So there's no use, and this one's completely unnecessary? It's completely unnecessary. It is very likely and you agree that the coronary virus will have to come to Croatia.../... Here I would just briefly say that I understand this very beginning. But here we are now installing this plastic in front of me and now that I've seen it adhere to these measures to hold the mask then and I say I'm not going to count on it to have some knowledge, so I don't know why my colleague is holding the mask here when none of us Parliamentarians are holding it. I don't get that message at all. So that confusion that they were creating all the time, and I'm most interested in the body where she was, where she was heroine, as the minister of perfume and quality wine and broken fish said, Minister Pavić is now our colleague, when he said that heroin was and was so, it was daily, all the media wrote at that time and had citizens' trust. But I do know that at a time when there was a refugee crisis in 2015, that she was also in that national protection centre when she was SDP's minister in the case of the then refugee crisis, so I don't know how she was then, and now one can be as another member of the other party was at headquarters when the SDP was in power, and now that HDZ is in power, no one can be in charge except party members. It was also unclear to me the other day on a national television that asked Capak's chief of staff how much the mortality of people who were on the respirator, he said I don't know, she told him how much in Germany and in other countries, he said I don't know I'm going to check it out. So it's strange that the confusion that gives the public this information or they don't know the information, but the fact and grief is that most in the Croatian Parliament do not support a single constructive proposal from the opposition that this Covid is a health care worker crisis. I am sorry that my colleague did not support the MOST amendment that was budgeting for Covid's supplement to be obtained by health and non-health workers in health care who are fighting against Covid. I don't get it, and she's from that system, the heroine of that system, and she didn't give me that explanation, and I asked her before this. MOST of Independent Lists has given an amendment that we understand also the law amending the law that was recently on the pandemic, affecting the public. You did not support him that he gives every month a national headquarters report to the Croatian Parliament i.e. You did not support it, and this proposal to understand each other, to understand well, this proposal was written on 15.9. and sent to the procedure. Which means we've been asking to give the report from the moment when, to give the report to this conclusion and I don't see any reason not to support it, to make this proposal, in this proposal to give a report of all measures. So what they've done, whether they've done well, whether there was nepotism, clientelism, corruption in the sale of masks, we remember that the masks now worth half the kuna were 20 kuna, 50 kuna in the pharmacy. We know it's been smuggled and getting huge money on these disinfectants. So we want to see corruption, clientelism, nepotism, co-operation with that, in this robbery of people who have been going on about Masks and disinfectants. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24354	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24355	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to remind her once of the chronology of the opposition demands specifically of us from the Most Representatives' Club on this issue we're discussing tonight. So, 16.9. confused by the fact that for six months, there have been no reports of the staff's work in the assembly, we have reached this conclusion. In the meantime, as the situation has become more and more escalating to the point that, from today’s perspective, the situation of 16.9 seems almost idyllic, we have tabled an amendment to the proposed amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which would oblige the Government to submit once a month a report to the Assembly and to specify clear parameters and criteria for possible reduction, mitigation of measures or abandoning the same measures or ideal scenarios of abolishing measures. None of that is respected. Today, when we discuss this conclusion, we heard from the ruling that we were saying some things that we didn't say. Moreover, even the words of HDZ representatives have been put in our mouths. So it is said that we said what a hypothetical colleague of the HDZ Bacic said. It was then mentioned that we were talking about Article 17 and we never mentioned it to be activated, but when you had not already acted on Article 17, it was repeated by a colleague named Pavić who said that we asked for a two-thirds decision to slow down the reaction of the Staff. That's not true. We've been looking and asking for the Staff to file a report on their work at the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. It was also mentioned just before that we deny the decisions of the Constitutional Court. No, we don't deny decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court ruled that he had ruled, that what was adopted was in accordance with the Constitution. But it's not the bianco exchange officer for everything he'll be doing in the future so he doesn't question himself, and especially the Constitutional Court at least as far as I know he hasn't ruled that the Staff can't accidentally file a report to the Parliament about their work. My colleague Pavić is talking about the anxiety of the opposition. Yeah, we're nervous. I'm nervous tonight, but I'm not nervous about you from the ruling majority or about what the Staff says but I'm nervous because in Croatia every day a lot of people die and unfortunately it's coming up next week, don't God and months will be like that. It's making me nervous, and we don't have any parameters to measure, no criteria yet. I repeat, for nine full months, we do not have a report on the work of the Staff of the Parliament which is the most political body of this state. That's what makes me old nervous. counterpart Grba Bujević said that Stožer has these statements every day, public address, etc. that information is available. Well, if that's the way it is for them to come to the Parliament and do it again. But that's where we can ask them some questions and hopefully get some answers. So, it is important that the Croatian public and I will repeat this for the tenth time realize that what we were looking for in this conclusion on 16.9. and that amendment that we have invested in the best faith and ultimately constructively last week we only asked that a report on the work of the Staff that manages our lives be submitted to the Parliament and which makes the main decisions in our fight as a whole community against the Coronal Virus. Among other things, that's why we're here. I can't replace the Staff press conferences with the Staff Report and the question of counter-question, arguments, everything that's going on here. Because communication between the Command is one-way communication. The journalist who asks the question cannot replace the parliamentary representative who represents the people, and the people are the bearer of sovereignty, and it comes from it and belongs to it. So I will express once again hope that there will be enough consciousness, conscience and in part of the ruling majority to support this conclusion, that this report will be submitted as soon as possible. The best would be tomorrow or the next week, not to wait 35 days, because that means a lot more dead and a lot of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24356	We have two replicas. The first is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24357	Thank you very much. I will see that this debate, which was targetedly boycotted, was put in this time because the entire day aired this space every five minutes, every 10 minutes with pauses just so the people wouldn't hear this serious debate and this serious proposal that the Civil Protection Staff gave a report on what they did in the first six months, all the mistakes they made, measures or what they did well to bring it to the Croatian public and in particular there is part and corruption, the covid of corruption that took place mainly as regards disinfectants, masks. We need to know that a half-breed mask was sold for 20 kunas for a while or more. And what was happening all the time, which was why contradictory statements and mistrust in the Staff were made. But they don't want to. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24358	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24359	We received great honor and great responsibility when after running we were given the trust of the citizens that over four years if this mandate lasts so long we represent ourselves in the Croatian Parliament. It's a big responsibility. If the job is done well, it means some lifetime honor for both us and our children and grandchildren to say grandfather or grandmother did good things at that time in the Croatian Parliament. But also responsibility in terms of if things are bad, if things work irresponsiblely, if things are done in such a way as to have bad consequences for Croatian citizens, that the names will remain forever marked. I mentioned the name of Ambassador Tonci Stanicic five times yesterday in the Parliament on the Croatian Declaration in BiH. His shame, which boasted that he was the first to congratulate Komsic. You have a great responsibility. Don't let someone's names fall back in five or ten or twenty years because this is a difficult and serious situation. The Staff also needs to report periodically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24360	The next replica of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24361	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Rasudiæ, both ultimately and trust the Staff and submit a report at the end of the month on how to believe, based on what and what criteria. For example, here is our colleague, Grba Bujević, who is still there, and at one point in the first wave, said that it is unserious to provide politicians without distance, that it is irresponsible, that it is like this or that it is so that very little after that it would be in a society without distance, without a mask with a prime minister, Capaka which is clearly visible in the media. So, if I'm making up the media in Croatia, they've all passed it on. Not to mention that crazy statement about masks, not to mention that the headquarters of the beginning is actually one way I don't know who's going to give a statement without taking care of some kind of core consent between them. And at the end of the day, these measures they've taken, I think they're more of a one-of-a-kind ludicrous non-critarian adoption and drumming. a measure which those who bring them do not keep. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24362	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24363	Everything you said stands, but let's go save what can be saved. We know all that. I would correct my colleague Nikola Grmoy he was saying this is what we saw the prime minister in May saying my government beat Covid-19 means when good I won, and when he lost badly we lost or you lost tell coach players when he lost. But this is now a paradoxical situation, so I mentioned Makewelia at least a little bit of makevelism now things are going very badly, and all the responsibility is on you. We give our hand to adopt this conclusion, we have this report that we will all discuss together if necessary, if it responds with quality and support. This is an opportunity not only to be responsible for you but to really be in the entire assembly. And while the reports in the assembly have no responsibility, it is exclusively at headquarters and your majority who supported it and who continues to support that he does not submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24364	Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24365	Thank you. So here are the two MPs left to discuss this important point. So it's quite clear what we're looking for here. We asked for a report on the work of headquarters right away, not for 40 days, especially if it's been over almost nine months since the start of the headquarters. So you're going to report to us on the work of headquarters almost a year after we actually entered this state of emergency even though it wasn't declared, but this isn't a regular state, so it's not normal and it's not as normal as you've been telling us. What a new normal, you know what's normal, which is insane, there's no, there's no new normal, and we'll never agree to that. This is the state that Croatian citizens want to get out of as soon as possible. People are sick and tired of what's going on and this isn't a regular situation, and it's your turn to file a report. They were talking about comparative practice, what's going on in Germany, what's going on in Britain, I don't know, it's been three weeks, it's somewhere less, there's a report on what's been done. There are clear criteria when measures are tightened, when they are tempered, when they are abolished. Croatian citizens know nothing, in suspense they wait for Christmas holidays and New Year's because you do not communicate clearly. And you're taking it out on that fellow Habib that we're against the press of headquarters. What do the citizens find out at headquarters presses? And without those presses, the headquarters is being sent a statement about how many of the infected are here, how many of them are infected here. We're looking for a report on what you've been doing and how these measures have affected you. Which you recognized and saw as good, which is as bad. To which Croatian citizens responded well, what they reacted badly. And you're talking about responsibility, I'm the last man in this assembly to defend the SDP government, but you mentioned some affairs I know that the actors of these affairs resigned after that. Who has now resigned except you have resolved members of the council, the scientific advice of the government. Who resigned because of what's going on? No one, except that you are famous for the government that you support is meant for you in the past government almost the entire government, there is no minister who started the mandate and ended the mandate. But you do all this later not in the course of the affair, but when Plenkovic can no longer defend himself, when it becomes a burden for him, so saddens me from Frka Petesic, he seems to me a decent, educated, smart man, many make fun of him, doesn't seem to me like someone to make fun of, as far as I've heard from the Croatian immigrant family. What are you doing to a man? He tells Plenkovic to call the scientists to cancel their cooperation and when he sees that media damage has occurred, then he has some kind of excuse, some kind of press, so what are you doing from man, do you hold on to people? It's a shame. It's a shame. And it is a shame that in a year you have not filed the report, almost a year will be so much when you submit it here to the Croatian Parliament. That's a shame, fellow Habiban. And I don't know why they left you here, what debt do you have to pay back why you and your colleague Bujević are abandoned here, why do you have to be here in the Croatian Parliament? I don't know if it might be your role in the candidacy of some kind in Varazdin, what's going on, but I know you're not comfortable and I wouldn't be in your skin. I wouldn't be in your skin. Listening to these reasoned criticisms, not having answers, it's not easy for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24366	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24367	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague, I'm here because I find it very interesting and very fun to listen to everything you say and say unargumented. So, all that you're saying is that my colleague Bačić and my colleague and I absolutely told him everything was completely different. And you don't stick to the subject at all. So the topic is the conclusion of half the page. You're talking about some things that aren't even a subject. So, you've been through the whole day-to-day political scene here in the last nine months, it's not a topic at all. You'll get the report just because the conclusion was voted last Friday. You'll get it and you'll get it as soon as you've asked for your conclusion, but you've only asked for it once, and now you'll have three times a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24368	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24369	Comrade Habib, please don't do this again. As I care about my colleague, Frka Petesic, I care about you so much. So don't talk about us not discussing the subject. What do you think the subject is? That we're asking the government to file a report. So the same thing that we've come to the conclusion that the CNB is reporting and that we're talking about how the CNB is leading monetary policy and that you're saying it's not the topic of debate. Well, Staff's the subject of a debate with a colleague named Habian. So you've been sitting on your ears all night. Well, since you're here, when you're a party soldier, then listen to what's being said and what's the subject. Listen to the subject. So the report on the work of the Staff, it's the topic of today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24370	The next replica is Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24371	Thank you, Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. and colleague of the Grmoys. So any other logical sequence of thought, and hence any question, not only of the Staff, but generally of any other matter referred to the rulings, their answer is most often in some category characterized by a child's logic which is unfounded and it is in fact clear that in the background of that response, this answer does not stand for one seriousness and responsibility. If that's already what it is, it's a very dangerous indicator that reality is actually experiencing in a completely distorted way. Thus, citizens' lives, and hence making decisions that are very difficult for Croatia to make happy. The argument that will rule this out is 16% of the voters who chose them. And when someone gets cocky and it's in the government and in the headquarters, it's known how life lands it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24372	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24373	I think fellow Kujundzic that it is not clear to the rulings what is actually happening and how much mistrust and dissatisfaction in the Croatian people is growing. Be aware of that and pray to the dear God that there will be no radicalization that you are now talking about, which is now gone and God forbid it is. You are not aware of this, and such an irresponsible approach only creates additional anger and disappointment among Croatian citizens. And thank you, colleague Kujundzic, even though you are in self-insulation, responsible for doing your job and being here with us tonight at this late hour's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24374	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24375	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues. First, let the Croatian public know that by ruling this story they understood correctly we would discuss it at the right time. We would discuss it in the morning, we would discuss this crucial and crucial topic for the Croatian people, for our society, for all people in front of a crowded assembly, we would debate in front of a crowd of media, we would debate in front of the entire Croatian public, and someone thought we might get tired, that we might give up. No, we won't. We at the MOST Club will never and thank the colleagues of the opposition who are here from the SDP with us until the end of this fight. I'm gonna do it again, and they're gonna tell Latina that he's repetited the sixth mother's studiorum. Really, if I had some decree, I'd give it to you now from the Most, believe me. So I'm looking into your eyes and I'm looking into that decree tomorrow to solve the pandemic, and I believe whoever's reasonable, he would do it. I mean what else. Here's when we wake up in the morning and there's no pandemic. And God forbid that's the way it is. But what worries us is that 9 months of this honorable House, MPs elected by the Croatian people, Stoger doesn't want us to come here to ask them questions not under some kind of play, in front of cameras, under someone's director's stick, before maybe I don't know the ordered questions and then answer every day. But gentlemen, it's not a report on the work of the Staff, it's a report on the current pandemic situation that we have as many infected as the deceased are unfortunately. We don't have a report, we don't have specific data. A report as the German Parliament headquarters arrives every two weeks, as it comes to the British Parliament every three weeks. I guess I don't know where democracy is at the right level, then you can do it, and with us, there's always some bazaar. Why? What's with all the fellow MPs? We can do it differently. We can do better. The report brings in all documents. The procurement report is no problem, so we will pay the masks of 5 thousand kuna each, if necessary, we will be in charge of the representatives if she will save Croatian citizens. But let's know how much that mask is paid. Let us know how much money is spent on the debtor of the Republic of Croatia and what that money is spent on let us know. We have a right to know. The Croatian public has the right to know, and I'm not telling you stories. We don't know why so many infected when it went to what extent, why it went to that extent, why it was going to close. My colleague said a while ago I don't know about sailors. I know. I'm a Riverain. Sailing club Lovran, oh yes, forbidden training, and the boys sit nicely in the boat and go nice to the sea. You can't. That's what we're talking about, the criteria. Of course we want to protect our citizens. So who wouldn't want to protect the citizens who have any common sense? Of course we have to keep our physical distance. But how can you shut down the caterers, close their terraces, and then say trade can? And that's fine. And listen, is that an import lobby or what? And the caterers can't, the terrace can't. Anything that's in the air can't. Lock down the gyms. People are pressing constitutional charges. Excuse me. For what? Because two of them are training at 200 square meters. That's not right. That's not fair. We wanted to be your Simon Cyrene. I'm really telling you we wanted to help you carry that cross, that burden. We were going to say, as an opposition, okay, you're ruling, but we're opening our hands, our heart, we're going to carry together. It's a country. We'll wear it together, and you refuse to accept that you've fallen. You fell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24376	Next individual debate. We have one replica of Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24377	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Miletic and everyday practical and theoretical political-media defetism to which we witness both us in the assembly and the people we meet on the street and with whom we are talking has actually turned this society into a time bomb whose only question of moment is important. The blackness that's pumping us has resulted in some kind of ugly event that no segment can justify. In particular, the country is devastated. Healthy logic has been devastated. An honest policy with some kind of patriotism and more honest than those of whom it should not have been, is also devasted. On the other hand, this same policy has formed one such headquarters that, with one such approach, brings about measures that will again result in something. On the third hand I don't understand why this same headquarters doesn't restore trust with a report like this on a monthly basis. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24378	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24379	Dear colleague Kujundzic, I really want to believe that we will find a solution. I want to believe that we're gonna get out of trenches that I might not know of. Maybe someone's plan was to be in trenches. I want to believe that we will set an example for Croatian citizens and tell them in order that we do not agree on the world-wide, ideological, one way or another. But basically, it's about protecting people's health. The main thing is to find the best solution we can at this point to keep people living, to think about what the consequences of all pandemics are brought by Croatian society, psychophysically. What about our youth? What about children growing up under strange circumstances? No one's thinking about it, and it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24380	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24381	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's an aria in the Seville Razor called La canunia e un Venticello. My colleague Rasdic knows that, too, because he knows Italian. What does that mean? That means slander is a breeze. And it was slander. Freedom of speech, parliamentary immunity, but I speak irresponsibly of certain things, so five times when you say one lie, it becomes true. When we talk about Racan's government, Racan's government had an inter-resorship headquarters, an inter-resor body within the government itself regarding crisis situations, because it took responsibility. She wasn't hiding behind headquarters decisions. And whatever reason the Baxter affair took place in one hospital, Minister Ana Stavljevic-Rukavina resigned for moral reasons and that's it. If anyone thinks it's different, feel free to replicate it for me. I won't answer, but I'd like it to be based on arguments and facts. It is clear to me that, through various rhetorical figures, concrete and sylogisms, specifically from sylogism, by which if the fish lives in the sea and the sea is blue that the fish is blue. Well, then we can say that this item of the agenda is consummated. Well, it's not consummated. I welcome the conclusions proposed by HDZ on the effectiveness of the measures every three months, or three times a year. It's true that the deadlines are as long as they are. However, there is talk of the effectiveness of the measures. I watch this efficiency on TV every day when I get numbers from my county, from all over Croatia, from friends from Zagreb, from other parts of Croatia, which is an epidemiological situation in the middle. I'd rather say they are, so I don't mind that HDZ's conclusions are consummated. This is essentially not consummated as the MOST amendment has not been consumed, including this point, as neither has been consumed nor the conclusion proposed by the SDP. And they're tied to the work of the Staff. Work is one thing, and the effect is another. The effect is something else entirely. Namely, for what reason am I saying that? Because people are sick, some unfortunately die independently for whom they voted in these parliamentary elections, regardless of the parliamentary majority, and that is the fact. It's the same as the human tear. The human tear has no color for a black man, no Asian, no Slaven, no German, no. She's got the same color in everyone, the whole human race. And the whole human race is dying because of this pandemic. But there's one thing human is to make mistakes, we learn especially about something that's unknown like this disease that's affecting us, and we know more and more. But we should also learn from the mistakes in that part about functioning and how we started to fight that pandemic. Errors were both in Croatia and France and Italy. Especially in France. Namely, by what, my daughter lives there. So what happened there? There first what the government said, the government said it was one form of flu and that it didn't have to worry, so that these numbers would become the numbers that exist. There was a similar situation in Italy. And that's why they first believed the authorities, and then we had an escalation of the pandemic. But there's one thing that's very important, but I will, so I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Assembly Committee Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24382	One replica, distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24383	Dear colleague, I'm going to have to defuse you. The facts deny you. The health care law did not know the concept of crisis headquarters at the time of the coalition government it was an old one, and the other thing was Baxter it was well known to the medical public not in one hospital but it was precisely that it had spread before, therefore, the detected one, I'm really tired, the observed event was not recognized in time. So it was in multiple hospitals. I know that as a doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24384	I appreciate the correction, but this isn't about abolishing civil protection. The second thing is an operational body that deals with the crisis itself. And as far as Baxter is concerned, it is true, but not all people, all Croatian health care is not affected, but individual hospitals. The crowd, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24385	The next debate is final on behalf of the club MOST independent lists, the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24386	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues. I'd really like to try to sum up a few thoughts in this last address tonight in the closing statement on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Whoever is discreet to him is clear that he could not know what would happen in February, in March, or perhaps in April. We can see that even some scientists who had completely different prognosis in March, both in April and in June and in July, and we see in August, and we can't help but notice that there were really different noises in communication and we can't help but notice that in this whole pandemic and covid situation that happened in our society, many have not been able to manage in the best way. And I wouldn't go even here, I wouldn't go ad-hominem, I wouldn't even go to some direct callings, but I think it's important for the Croatian public that we here discuss how measures are taken, why at some point these measures are being taken, what is the effect of these measures, what happened in the Staff itself if we specifically talk about the purchase of equipment, how much that equipment is paid. And I believe that the Croatian public has the right to know, these are legitimate questions and as I mentioned several times in my previous speech. If we have parliaments with a much stronger democracy where in this difficult situation their headquarters comes from, submits concrete reports, very concrete every two weeks, every three weeks I talk about Germany, about Great Britain, then we hold that it would be prudent to stand here in this honorable home in front of MPs who were elected by Croatian citizens and to be available here in front of us to answer questions. Maybe the ones responsible would calm us down? Perhaps we could calm the Croatian public? Maybe you should just come in, stop and say we've been trying people, doing everything we think should be done at a given moment? Maybe she should have said we didn't get along? Maybe we should have gathered the courage and said sorry, we'll try harder, we'll do as much as possible to bring this story to an end? Of course as much as possible in the human dimension. But the headquarters lost their autonomy the whole time. He's lost credibility. He lost it. I'd say freedom in science. He's turned into some kind of extended mechanical arm that's taking very reckless measures. It is not reasonable to close public terraces and open centers where several hundred people walk each day. That's not reasonable. It is not reasonable that in one city in Croatia, I talk about Split on the outside you have a team of women's football and that they can train, and then on that same playground under the same conditions the boys are not allowed because they are a league lower. So it's allanfordian, it's not right. And that's that prudence I'm talking about, and at the end of it I thought we had to warn as an opposition. Anyone can make a mistake. It happens to everyone. A living man makes a mistake, but then if you have the cheek to stand in front of your colleagues, you stand in front of the Croatian public, you stand in front of the Croatian people and you say we were wrong. We're sorry. Please accept an apology and let's see what we can do together, and that would be the move of the statesman. That would be the right move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24387	The next final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24388	Dear colleagues and colleagues, not to greet you all again. There's one thing, when the pandemic began, when the worst lockdown proved to be the greatest of our weaknesses. We were leaving waiting for rows in the markets. It wasn't flour. There was no potato. There wasn't much. We've seen how dependent we are on imports. You could see how much domestic production we're actually missing. We've seen a lot of things. We also saw what our system is like to close everything and everything, and then, of course, people had a lot of time to think about what's going on in this country. After that, 6:00. For a month we had a prime minister who boasted that it was and that's true I mean, it's not a lie, which he said publicly several times visiting Croatia that the pandemic was defeated. So he beat the pandemic. Then we had a tourist season. After the tourist season, we now have another thing going on. There's a thing happening to us that's connected to the fact that nobody's responsible anymore. They're guilty of not wearing masks and now they're going to have to pay fines for not wearing masks. If we understand each other, I am in favor of wearing masks and that because it endangers other people's health, and it would be normal for people to sanction. I don't know what kind of sanctions they should be, or I think it's pointless to talk about bidding in which amounts they're supposed to be. But we are a whole series of interphase that are other countries and that's what we don't have a chance to discuss, because if we are discussing the effectiveness of the measures rather than facing the political decisions and experiences that other countries have made, maybe lockdown shouldn't have been. You see, in one country, you have a pattern. In another country, I have a piece of paper where I, Eric Fabianic, declare that I am going to the first market to buy bread. Buy some bread, okay. I can't walk on a goat. I need to get down to the nearest store. Otherwise, there's a punishment for making a public statement. It's one way to limit something without apps on Smartphone that are paid and that don't work. ... paper. [[You don't understand.]] I mean, you can write that statement on your cell phone if it's your phone. So you don't have to waste paper, let's be ecological. And that's why it's important to deal with all kinds of thinking. Keep your heads together in this whole situation, because we didn't get our heads together here. I'll name one banana just when it was the worst lockdown. Primorje-Gorski Kotar County is the founder of the Institute of Public Health. The other county has it. The river also has a medical school. There are some more visible experts I see on TV, we see Jonjic, this guy, that guy, there's them, not that they're gone. Even the testing technology, we prayed and the best man in Zagreb to start testing to perfect ourselves at the moment when the World Health Organization was talking, testing, testing, testing, driving samples to Zagreb, getting them back from Zagreb. Why? Why? If it weren't for the question.../incomprehensible/... who and at Baxter's where someone else was getting it, and the minister resigned, and the minister resigned. What are we talking about? But he's not here, no one here should be hungry for blood, but he should be responsible, not guilty, responsible. Responsible for every action. And you know what a responsibility is, when some people tell me what a responsibility is especially from people who are drilling in patriotism, I've experienced it sadly. And that's when you get back from the battlefield and you go to the mother of a dead soldier to explain why he died. It's my responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]] And this remains.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24389	On behalf of the motion representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24390	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues who have been patiently discussing the important topic 3 minutes before half the night, so we have been discussing this important topic for a long time, I am sorry that most have not accepted this proposal to see what measures have been taken, the council that has given power to bring these measures here to the Croatian public and to see the results of these measures in, which have been taken in the crown crisis. So it's simply that the opposition, which they were saying here, was denied by this proposal on 15.9., and they simply didn't want to accept it until the colleagues of the opposition signed this proposal by MOST Club to finally get our heads together, that this problem that we have and this confusion and this psychosis in the Croatian people, in Croatian society, of course, and the burdens that people carry on their backs in fear of their jobs not only in terms of health crises and dangers that can cause the Covid crisis. I'm sorry that most of us don't want to talk, which is why they all refuse to cooperate together to be the heads of the cup and take part in the responsibility together and try to help, all of us make unique decisions together. But obviously all it takes is a party card to give scientists advice to the government, which is not good. And I must send that message from thence, and I hope the ruling hears it. I repeat that here, we were not interested in looking for guilt and drinking blood. We understand that it has been a difficult situation, that it has been difficult to make decisions, but we must now have had other ways and examples of the management of this crisis. We have to accept that and we have to get these results here because we see dissatisfaction from those who create additional value. They are entrepreneurs who protest in front of Minister Coric in front of the ministry even set up a wreath that Minister Coric put the last nail in the coffin of the Croatian economy so that this crisis can cause great, terrible negative consequences, and we have to do everything to make it not so. Here we are also afraid of the demographic outflows even bigger from the Republic of Croatia after this crisis, the borders will open, this crisis will end if God gives us hope as soon as possible, and then people will lose their jobs, and many will unfortunately have to go to other countries after this crisis so that we will have a number of measures to take after the Covid crisis to stop these, these trends that have been following Croatia for years. The opposition is trying to do this, I can only add and say that this crisis has exposed all the bad policies, the crown of the crisis that has led to the Republic of Croatia from self-sufficiency in terms of food production, agriculture has been seen that our orans have not been modeled, and then they have been executed, and even Prime Minister Plenkovic for a time and Minister Maric has said that it is very important to self-sufficiency and that everything will be done, however, nothing has happened. In fact, there are still 800,000 hectares of agricultural land not modelled. I have also made a proposal legally in that mandate and in this to facilitate the division of agricultural land owned by the state, which is 400,000 hectares, it is now also visible in pigmeat that in Croatia people simply dealing with pigmeat that imports prevail, the import lobby is doing their job. And we also see the impact on new bill proposals given by the ministry that pleases GMO manufacturers, import lobbys, Mosantu around seeds where ours, where we will be much stricter measures for our own seed, than will be exactly unified and we will have to adapt there. Many of the measures that have been taken if we do not see them are essentially examples of teleoperators, it is more over the Misetic dynasty, Tena Misetic influences them on the prime minister. In the 5th month, it seems to me that just before the end of the last government, a decision has been made to forgive teleopers for 50% frequency fees, 50% by not reducing our citizens' accounts, and the teleopers have 100 million kuna left if not more in their pocket. I don't know exactly, but people speak over 100 million kuna for the frequency, while for our people who are changing receivers right now, and that's kind of a weird job. It even smells like corruption to me that in this crisis when we change DBT2 TV receivers, we change it now at this time when the worst time is to change receivers, because people are mostly older, it's their only window in the world and you're changing it, and you haven't accepted that amendment of the opposition. So the opposition, the bridge we gave us. I gave it to rebalancing, and later my club gave it through the budget. A number of other proposals we have made, 300 amendments to the budget, were mostly amendments related to the COVID crisis from the area, so we come, but we need to know here is the reference to the Gorski Kotar. It's similar in Dalmatian Zagora. It is similar in Slavonia that all these amendments that were made had this kind of link to COVID supplement for our socially endangered, for our hard-lived people and who are having a hard time experiencing this crisis. It is unclear for me that you do not accept an amendment that would help people not only the COVID supplement, but help people who have lost their jobs. Well, we have data that such a strong increase in homeless people is because they did not lose their job with their guilt, but because of the bad measures the government was giving so that people were out of jobs. We've got more and more homeless people because I can't pay my dues and stay on the road. These are serious topics that may have caused the wrong measures that we then drawn to the shortcuts that were pre-election for Andrej Plenkovic to say at one point before the election in the 5th month by this government, the Croatian government, my government, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, I beat COVID, we are winners. It's like it's really like he was catching it, like it was an atmosphere like this COVID weighs 100 pounds, 110 kilos, and we're catching it. So I know down in my county wearing the mayor's shoes this thing while it was well looking for applause, when he came in from behind where he shouldn't have been in 75 minutes what Berosch said to the House for the Elderly and Powerless then there was no more, then the mayor was sent... Not Mayor Boban anymore, but Mayor... [[You don't understand.]] And he was in the pit as though he had always been critical in the pit of flight; so was it when the thunder was and when the fire was fired, and when it was to be killed. [[You don't understand.]] We simply cannot treat and treat our citizens in this way. You wanted to pick up the political points. You've been making obviously bad measures. This isn't about someone's blood. The question here is because everything has been targeted to win the election, and this COVID crisis has caused great damage to the economy, to people, health has been revealed entirely that it is disorganized. Minister Berosch was executed completely. The man from the national hero they drew with our colleague Bujevic, Capak, drew it to fly, I think. Every show you were on until you went to Parliament. Now you're a little quieter. And then you said you didn't need a mask, now you even hold a mask and where you shouldn't. Here you are holding the mask, so really you as heroes, heroes made a strong impression on the Croatian nation mostly at the time and you asked even to clap. And understandablely, it was meant to create the trust of the Croatian people in your fogs and deceptions that you cast to win the election. And when you won the election of course and on election night you hugged so much, kissed, squeezed that it was amazing right away on election night, you waited not for the day, but for election night. So it's not everything in the election and it's not everything in power and it's nobody's till the end of time, and I think the measures that we need to study well, see where we've been wronged, and we have a much harder time ahead. And I can't, when my colleague Bacic says you don't do anything we're... I'm alone, there's now a procedure I think ten laws. [[You don't understand.]] So you and the current laws and suggestions that are now... The Ministry of Agriculture you're guessing... and GMO manufacturers. [[You don't understand.]] You want to forbid that we can't plant our native seeds in the garden right now. Tomorrow I'm going to keep the press here on how much you please your own, of course, your sponsors first of all politically such as teleopers, because you can't mention them teleopers. They're strong advertisers. You know he won't, the paper can't write, how will he write against teleopers, the media any time he finances them, they live off him? Then they're lying. I think I forgive half the fee for the frequency of teleoperators when the biggest COVID crisis, and the mask of my colleague Bujevic you are the only one left as heroin from this severe pandemic war, the mask cost 20 kuna when you said you shouldn't, the mask is even unnecessary. ... It's a mask. [[You don't understand.]] So this corrupt octopus has earned the most during COVID so that people today suspect always and in pharmacists, in the pharmaceutical industry and don't think that without... People don't think differently than they used to think. [[You don't understand.]] But the lesson to learn from this crown of crisis must be, we must look for solutions, draw a line and see conclusions because it has exposed all the policies that you have seen have been missed. Every single one of them. We're all testing ourselves in the crown crisis. Those unfortunate refugees, the refugees. illegal migrants are entering the border. Neither does anyone ask them what, nor does they do miracles on the Mount of Kotar. No one controls them, no one cares. People are left to themselves by these people who, of course, run away, and of course, mostly those residents. That's how it's in the vervain area. Here's who's talking about today... from Vrgorec, originally from my Zagora, who mentions today's flood in Vrgorec? [[You don't understand.]] Well, I've been giving amendments for years to get rid of things that flood people's orchards, that... Down with the boots. [[You don't understand.]] I went with the mayor 100 times. ... Who cares about what flooded it, and we still had a minister who was influential, my fellow vice president and General Krstičević, I've told him 100 times, so let's solve it, flood people's vineyards, orchards, people drinking Vregorska orchards, Vrgorje strawberries, I think people are in trouble, but don't worry about who after these parts, it's important that Andrej Plenkovic caught the virus and solved the problem in the 5th month, that he won it was the most important thing. [[You don't understand.]] And they are clapping as well as Sanader Ivo, Ivo, Jaco, Jaco, Tomo, Tomo and always the same behind him, although no one knows Sanader anymore, they are not this one, neither did our vice president, Ante Sanader, never saw Sanader, Bačić has no idea who he is, I hear even when talking to Jandrokovic and Bačić to ask themselves, you know this man, when they see Sanader on TV. So much that it's all essentially hypocritical, destructive and that's what's affecting Croatia, and yesterday we saw when he was here the President of the Supreme Court that people's mistrust not only in institutions like the Civil Protection Staff must have trust, and even my locals were starting to wear those suits with rank, it gave away, I think it really worked out that, that just missing a machine gun to get this in the blue market behind the church, to shoot the virus. You've been sending so many bad messages to people, the destruction that they're human, it's so crowded the atmosphere that the sea is escalating. And if it doesn't escalate, we have to do it together, and we suggest that, together with you, we see these measures, discuss what you've been doing since the headquarters got power from the assembly. So you wanted to follow up on the mobile phone of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, imagine what you wanted to do. Following people, I think, is an interest, to control everything. So I have a cell phone now I leave it here if I have Covid and I go out for a drink coffee phone is there, right? Well, I guess what makes the triba smart is that you were in that headquarters, so no one heard more crazy alive. And endangering people's freedoms and rights in such a way that you know who they're talking to is not national security. National security doesn't matter what my colleague Fabiančić and I, Miletic, Grmoja, a colleague, says, it doesn't matter what they say to who, what they say, is who is against Plenkovic, who is for Sanader in HDZ in Split-Dalmatia County, who is for Boban, who is in Sinj for Sanader, that's important. They care about the rest, it's a bag in your hands, so he was Kerum, was, give him a concession all over Split, whoever, that's important. And that's what people see and that's bad things, and it can escalate now, people are hungry. Let us close the border for 3 days we have no food for 3 days, and 800,000 hectares of unprocessed surfaces and you will find it meaningful when I say the triba of the alleged Sinjsko polje, the triba of the alleged Straight Wheels, the triba of the alleged Drnik, Petrovo polje, to solve the problem of Vrgorsko field of flood of Imotski and irrigation, it's deliberate for you against, against. Why against, what's the reason, why is he against? You left empty Croatia, then race when and, I mean I have to mention this, the most meaningful thing for me was when it was a race, when it was, I mean, the most meaningful thing, how it requires justification for people who lost the election. Today we have also had this law where there will be no more deputy chiefs, so he will hire them until the election all, here to one, to one, or be a health care institution directors or be head of schools even though they have no school connections, pay their portals to have their own, so they can hit Mira Bulje, that they can solve all Sanader and those clicks and they pay the county money, watch out for the county and it's a disaster and they're like HDZ's. It doesn't matter when Tudjman was at war what they and their dogs whistled at Tudjman, it's easy, what their parents were, it's easier, it's even easier, it's important that they're in HDZ right now. No one should be clumped by it, no cat should be.../incomprehensible/... Bad, bad work, centralism is huge, the county is creating a huge problem with local self-government, not only is this Covid bad, but the waste management centre you're jeopardizing our water, drinking water. We see how much it means with food and water. The Lečevica Waste Management Centre has swept 30 million kunas. You know what's been invested? He can stop and pick a lawn with no problem. It's good winter, nothing. Nine employees of 15 years of Ante Sanader's former mayor said in 2009 when the elections were here, now a waste management centre will open in a month, to this day the same, backdrops, blackberries. And better yet, by the love of God, only the money has been put in for nothing. And they're still closing up the waste in Vrgorec and you're pushing it into Sinj along the Cetina River without any idea, in the Cetina River that feeds half of Split-Dalmatia County, you've put Jadro at risk, people in this crown crisis for every minor rain, Split can't have drinking water, SplitCili, they've threatened Jadro, they've put Jadro at risk. The numerous tunnels, to the Kozjak tunnel, the exit, the exit to the wolf's exit that is Sanader Eve's village, and probably by gender, I don't at least know how to invest that there's a light there but a fox mailing his nose, and a wolf ringing, no man, ringing noon. There is no exit for Sinj and Cetinski end 50,000 people Cetin region fast road 20 km problem. There's no money, 40% of the hydropower comes to an end. Well, of course people are appalled, that our national resource is appalled by the wind from Dinara, blowing the vitars from Dinara, the patriots beer from Dinara, when that vitar from Dinara steam in someone else's pocket, at the expense of the people, blowing the vitre that in Padjan, every turn of kuna turns every man out of his pocket down, so. Bad, bad from the mountain cotter who has a huge resource of the forest, which has, in this crown crisis we have triangulated about thinking about the crisis is she when the best money is being saved. You didn't have the courage in all of Croatia, you didn't have the courage to do what Slovenia did. Why is it that the Prime Minister is not afraid of Plenkovic.../incomprehensible... when he comes to the assembly here then business opportunities, we are talking about one topic about Coric, he is talking about Istanbul. You from the SDP are for Istanbul. You from the Bridge are against, this one's for. That's where he got his mouth... If they were 41st, no one should go to war. [[You don't understand.]] They'd get to Japan. And he can't tell the Moratorium banks on loans and interest for a year that people are left with money, that we have more spending, that our businessmen can't sell their products. Now, that can't be. At midnight and 16 minutes and 44 seconds it can't and these are bad messages. This power, and most of it has been robotized, so I'm proposing that the cost reduction and COVID crisis be put here by robots and that we don't come here anymore because it doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-09-0.u24391	This has been a very inspired debate on this subject. Now we understand everything. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing up. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. by proposing a national strategic framework against cancer by 2030. The session was interrupted at 12:17 p.m.
