ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3703	Honorable MPs and respected MPs good morning. Before we continue our work, I invite you to remember and honor the recently deceased first president of the Croatian Parliament after the democratic changes of Dr. The Tomb of the Domljan. Dr. Crescent. Domljan will remain in our memory because of his political engagement and outstanding contribution to the creation of a sovereign, independent and democratic Croatia, the construction of its state institutions and the promotion of Croatian interests in international organisations. In recent Croatian history, Dr. Domljan will remain remembered as the first president of the Croatian Parliament after democratic change. Under his leadership, this high home has made a series of legal acts essential for the development of a modern Croatian state and society, including the making of the first Croatian Constitution and the decision that Croatia has declared to be a sovereign and independent state. In carrying out a series of high and responsible parliamentary duties, Dr. The Domljan has shown great patriotism, commitment and responsibility by always promoting Croatian national and state interests. Mr. Crescent. Žarka Domljana will also be remembered as a top intellectual who has left an indelible mark on promoting Croatian history, art and lexiography. Please, please, let's give him a moment of silence and honor. - A moment of silence - May it be his eternal glory and thank him. Now we'll continue to work, speak freely, before that comes to colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3705	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would ask you as President of the Croatian Parliament to put under emergency procedures a debate on illegal migrants because people in Dalmatia are threatened by illegal migrants who are increasingly aggressive. Today is the Committee on National and Internal Affairs I expect from you. [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj, I beg you.]] Just because of the seriousness of the situation... [[No, no, you can't do that, just a little bit I'm begging you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3706	I'm begging you to stop. So what you're doing right now is breaking the Rules of Procedure. There is no basis in the Rules of Procedure for you to now do what you have now done and you have a free speech now begins and you can talk about this subject, ask for everything you have asked for right now. So there's a procedure, there's a Rules of Procedure, and please stick to it and I urge you to say all that you wanted to say now in your 5-minute debate. Have a seat now. ... You can't do that, then 151 MPs, everyone will find a topic and ask to put it on the agenda. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] There's a free speech for that, and you'll have five minutes to talk. I have nothing else to say to you. Please sit down. ... Well, it's okay, and that's why you'll be talking about it for five minutes. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I invite you to talk about it now that you have a free debate. Let's move on with the debate, now it's the Advocacy Bridges Club of Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3719	President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The democratic deficit is a concept I have already mentioned many times in this short stay in the assembly, and unfortunately, I will probably have to mention it many more times. What we are talking about is the cancer of the early modern democracy, the democratic deficit is the biggest cause of the crises that rock the EU and the mistrust of growing citizens. It is that more and more decisions on our lives are made by bodies, people, institutions that no one has directly chosen and which do not directly respond to anyone. The latest dramatic example of the democratic deficit is seen these days when the media broadcast news that the same sex couple who have a registered partnership fostered a child. At the same time, the Household Act is not changed and it does not stand, nor are life partners listed as a framework within which it is possible to carry out the household but the Constitutional Court, by its verdict and by its intervention which clearly goes beyond its powers, has taken over part of the work and responsibilities that this Assembly has. So, the Constitutional Court de facto assumes the role of legislator, comes out of its framework, deals with what is called legislative activation, as one judge said in a separate opinion and does de facto our work. So, I call on the House to discuss the Household Act, to change it, I have no doubt that HDZ will have that support and most of the opposition, let them specify an explicit life partnership in the Houseship Act and let them do so. It is obviously a majority policy, you implement it and take that responsibility to the public, not that the Constitutional Court is doing something that is the work and ingenuity of the Parliament. For example, the second is the headquarters of which legal arguments continue to be held. The President of the Republic described it in plastic terms to determine whether or not we will or where we wear masks or how many people are allowed to be at the wedding, again people whom the people did not choose. The messages are very contradictory. The official documents of the British government that you can easily see on the Internet say that children in schools in Britain shouldn't say they shouldn't wear masks even where it's not possible to achieve distance because it's more damage than good. Now I ask if the virus is different in the UK than it is in Croatia? From my daughter what I heard yesterday at school, come on as wearing masks, but she says I was reproved by a teacher because a girl had some juice so she gave me a sip if they were kids and they were wearing masks. Well, of course they'll share both juice and a sandwich and they're one community of 20, what and how to isolate them. We need to declare a state of emergency, pull an article. 17. The constitution so that the headquarters can then obtain a basis or create a new law in which there will be a list of measures that the headquarters or government can bring in cases of pandemics? But something needs to be done because in such an airless legal space, all kinds of manipulations are possible and I repeat the even greater mistrust of citizens. These headquarters decisions have a drastic impact on people's lives, we have a problem with small-scale crossings in the Neretva Valley and in Aržana that are closed as a result of a pandemic where people's lives are very difficult. We have already had the first protests, while migrants are much easier to cross the border than Croatian citizens on the one hand and on the other. A thematic session of the Parliament is needed, and here I agree with Agent Mir Bul on the subject of the migrant crisis because we have a very dangerous situation in the Union canton of Sanajo, which is obviously left to himself by official Sarajevo, where it is estimated by between 20,000 and 30,000 illegal migrants, a time bomb at the border of Croatia, certainly Sabo needs to be discussed. What is also needed in the parliament is the fact that Croats in neighbouring countries lost their representatives in parliaments, first in Serbia's elections and then in Montenegro's elections. This case of Montenegro is particularly problematic. I don't know, Mr. Bacic. I have some information that you've been having some conversations with the Croats there in Montenegro. Is that true? If so, it wouldn't be bad for you to inform the parliament, what happened, why they disintegrated, why the Croats eventually ran out of representatives in the Montenegrin parliament. So, we live in one very difficult moment, the problems are at the border on the side, and we in the Assembly are reduced to one third of our limited right to debate, for the current hour next week we are also reduced to one quarter of the possibility of debate, and on the other hand our powers are taken over by some other bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3720	Thank you. So now we're starting with free speech. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement and the esteemed colleague Stipo Mlinarić. Here, here, you have a free speech now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3737	The respected chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, minorities and protection of minority rights are often the subject of a public debate and always thinks of members of national minorities, and forgets about a minority in which we count those whose protection is certainly most needed. These are primarily people with disabilities, children with developmental disabilities, we forgot about both old and powerless, we forgot about children with severe malignancies, we forgot about people suffering from chronic wounds. They're all on their own and their families. The Republic of Croatia guarantees everyone the right to freedom of movement, the right to education, the right to work, the right to economic freedom. After all, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that we are all equal before the law and we all have the same rights. Our society has become inhumane and socially insensitive to the problems and needs of these very people. Today, when we look from the point of view of persons with disabilities, I must say that Croatia is neither free nor democratic nor human. The question is, why, why is that? A state policy that did not allow every person, regardless of his psychophysical ability, to live a man of dignity, cannot be called a democratic state. The government, introducing a quota employment law, takes money across the back of that minority and benefits from filling the state budget. In the last few years since the quota employment law was passed, more than a billion kuna could be collected so far, and only an indicative of 20 million kunas have been used to employ people with disabilities. Finally, at 2 months this year, the amount of the fee is no longer calculated at a rate of 30%, but at a rate of 20%. In addition to the law, an article that allows the Government to use the funds so collected for other purposes should some exceptional circumstances occur. Europe, which did not reduce the contribution of people with disabilities, had the same extraordinary circumstances. When buying a new fleet intended for government officials, then we have European criteria, and when it comes to human beings, then Europe has no leads. Through the personal assistance project, only 1400 people with disabilities live in Croatia 5500 people with disabilities moving by active or sports carts. 6500 people moving by electric motor wheelchairs, not to mention various difficult intellectual challenges, which would total more than 30,000 people with disabilities who have the same right to a personal assistant as these 1400s. My colleagues and colleagues, I wonder where humanity is. If we just Google a little bit and look at the German model of caring for these minorities, where through various incentives support those who employ people with disabilities, and their system recognises the disability and people who are over the various tumors and allows them various tax reliefs to reintegration into the system of work. He is aware that Croatia is not in a situation to copy a certain system and apply it in Croatia, but we can create our own system that will be a significant item in the development of the economy in Nice Ours. People with disabilities, children with developmental disabilities, children suffering from malignancies, older and powerless, persons with chronic wounds, people who are suffering from various tumours, do not seek any benefits or privileges. They are looking for the same opportunity to participate on equal grounds in building a community. My colleagues and fellow MPs, there is one question that touches the heart, which in tears puts mothers with developmental difficulties and mother persons with disabilities. What happens to my child when I'm gone? But there's something worse, when those mothers say, that it's only for me to live to die before me, just for five minutes, to know that he didn't suffer. The native movement will not give up on these members of the community who deserve a man's life. Not that he's not going to give up on these people I've led here, but he's not going to give up on the search for the missing or the finding of people like dr. Schreter, like Tomislav Sixan and other missing persons Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3749	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Željko Sačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3750	Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. Here, recently was the anniversary of the celebration, the 77th anniversary of the beastly massacred population, the population of Croatia in the Banian Croatian town of Zrin. Even more famous in Europe and the world after the birth of our great man Nikola Šubic Zrinski, whom the Yugoslav criminals, the Communist Partisan, led by Tito by direct order, Vladimir Bakaric and the operational commander, one Karl Stojakovic, were on 9th morning of '43. Mr. attack, surrounded, killed 300 of them in the environment, defended the village, the place honorably, until the end, until they could, 80 of Croatian patriots, and then the village had 900 inhabitants. Of them 900, 300 were immediately killed the same day, and the order was to burn everything, to destroy everything, especially the church, the home, to kill the inhabitants, male, all ready for battle, and to rob the property. And so it was carried out according to this beastly, war-criminal order, everything has been proven, everything is justified, and now, dear gentlemen, the survivors have been displaced in Croatia, mostly in the part around Nash and Đakov and them, which is the saddest thing, and that is why today I am standing here in front of the Croatian public and in front of this High House, this crime is still going on. This crime was cemented by a permanent court decision in the Court, by a judge of some kind, Nicolas, 1.2.'46. The year, where it was made, and when the verdict on confiscation of all the property of war criminals, the people's enemies of the people of Zrin was passed, permanently and banned and never allowed as Croats to return to that place, it says in the verdict because they are harassing the local Serb population with their return. Dear friends, the Croatian public, anyone who has had Croatian thoughts must be recorded, so where we live, 30 years have passed since the draft democratic Republic of Croatia, 25 years after the Storm and no one has ever applied the provisions of existing laws, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Courts, the DORH, to change unlawfully to God calling for an unjust state. We, the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, will take all the measures at our disposal to undo this shameful criminal segregation racial inadmissible criminal verdict and call on all of you, all of those who have been here in the last 30 years without doing so before. These people are living descendants, one of them is the Greek bishop Petanich. They must see that at their houses, their hearths, posters are sold houses, in Belgrade is an intruder who has also settled against decisions and the Constitution, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the highest acts of the UN, our law, our laws, our Declaration on the Conviction of Communist Crimes, the EU Parliament resolution, are deaf, blind and dumb. We need to change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3765	Now it is the SDP's club and respected counterpart Sanja Udovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3766	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that I have been looking forward to taking a position on the matter of waste management and environmental protection. When the Government or the Minister speak about policies, objectives, perspectives is regularly called on to Europe and the implementation of its directives, but forgets to point out that environmental protection, and in particular waste management it approaches in one of Croatia in a tried way, and that is not a wave, copy, and you will see what with it later. I believe that most of you have already heard of the problem of the Mariščina and Kaštion waste management centre and the environmental and quality of life of locals, and that of the municipalities with the highest population in Croatia, the Viskovo municipality and the municipalities with the largest number of tourist visits to the Medulin municipality. It is a problem that locals currently feel only these two municipalities, but believe me, this mandate will not go away either, and that some of my colleagues will talk about the same problem but in another part of Croatia. The right to a healthy and clean environment is one of the highest values of the Constitution as a fundamental legal act of a state. I demand that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to do so. Waste management has been Croatia's biggest environmental problem for years. In the Republic of Croatia, 2 waste management centres were built with the aim of sustainable and ecological disposal of municipal waste all in accordance with the Strategy and the Plan for Waste Management of the Republic of Croatia. In all, significant EU funds and all levels of state, local and regional administration have been invested to establish a waste management centre. The current concept of waste management is not functional, it is not sustainable because almost no element of the system defined by the Strategy and the Plan for waste management of the Republic of Croatia and the laws and sublaws does not work. The centres deal with significant losses, and they are invested large funds. Finally, we have been brought into a paradoxical situation that by solving one problem, the competent ministry has created another, far more serious, and this is a violation of the quality of life and a potential threat to the health of the population. I am speaking to you for this very reason, and I ask that the waste management system be audited immediately this way. In waste management centres Mariščina and Kastijun, mixed municipal waste is handled by mechanical and biological technology. This technology should be abandoned and the existing 2 centres adapted to real conditions, and in accordance with the principles of environmental protection and circular economy. Another of the wrong settings of this waste management system is the plan to sell waste fuel as a product of waste management centres and thus finance the work of centres and systems as a whole, resulting in affordable costs of waste management for citizens. I must stress that when defining this system, the strong role of the state that should have enabled the mechanisms for the use of waste fuel by building energy plants or using existing capacities is planned. It's completely missing. Today's situation is that the waste fuel supply is gone. In the last four years, waste fuel has been placed in negligible quantities, so it stays in the center and ultimately causes the smell. In addition to waste fuel, waste, plant capacity and global disturbances in the secondary raw materials market are also a particular problem. So at this point, communal companies are not cost-effective and waste recycling, but the cheapest thing to do is to take all the waste to the centers, as a matter of principle, is to trouble my transition to another. Without strong government interference in this aspect of the system, the results will be getting worse and worse, and the objectives set are becoming more and more unattainable. It is paradoxical that those whose waste is taken care of in an ecological way, in accordance with all strategic, plan and legal regulations, pay considerably more than those who do not do so. To increase the paradox due to waste fuel disposal, the use of biodrying technology and the recovery of pollution resulting from this high price will continue to rise. I note, that the concept in which all pollution is concentrated in one place in professional and scientific knowledge has long been abandoned. I claim that the existing system does not meet its purpose and that it needs to be improved urgently, redesigned and planned as a complete and rounded system on the principles of the circular economy, and in a way that is not only burdened by one location. We therefore require urgent access to the redesign system or to amend all strategic planning and legislative documents which define waste management, but on new principles and settings [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Since this system has no head, no tail. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3767	Let's move on. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the esteemed colleague of Anja Shimprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3768	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the topic I am going to talk about today is widely known to everyone, however, it is very important to talk and remind of life problems both in the islands and in the rural areas from which I come. All people are born free with equal dignity and rights, every man, whether young or old, poor or rich, has the right to a decent life. The important task of every local community, but also of other actors in society, is to contribute to creating a fairer society and increasing the quality of life for each of us. Part of our country's citizens are being discriminated against because they are not available with the most important resources, water. No public water pipelines were built to their settlements, some were destroyed in the war, and local water lines with questionable water quality are somewhere. To public water supply, 97% of the population of the Republic of Croatia are connected, while to local 1.6. The loss from the public water line amounts to 80 percent. According to the UNESCO survey, we are 5th in Europe, and in the world we are 42nd in the availability of water by the wealth of the source. We need to work continuously to restore and build a public water supply network, where economic profitability should not be a key criterion for us. According to data available to the SDSS, in areas where members of the Serb community live, there is a need to resuscitate and build water lines in 145 villages. About 5100 households. They cannot not mention the inhabitants of the village of Kolarin located in the Benkovac area, which were lost without connection even though a water supply network was built in Perusic Benkovacki in 2019. Of course, the reason was economic profitability and insufficient population, which should not be one of the criteria. The supply of water in most villages is provided by voluntary fire companies, as well as by utility companies, by auto-cisteries, who are assigned to use by the Directorship for Stocks in the season. The more developed they have in their possession such a tanker, thus making the water supply situation easier. DVDs Biscopia and Ervenik in the season of transport and up to 700, each of them up to 700 rounds of drinking water, so that people fill their wells, i.e. lizards. For such DVDs in Knin, Kistanja, Gračac, Ervenik, Bishop, but also in other environments, new car tanks to be provided along with the transport of drinking water will also be used on fires that are more frequent, which is due to human factor, but also climate. Let us only remember in 2017 when fires occurred in the region of Dalmatia, and the mentioned fire companies did not have adequate vehicles. If no public water supply network has been built for people in Braiškovci, Vaćan, Briber, Ocestovo, Poleča, Žagrović, Vrbnik, Wet Polje, Oton, Pliskova, Nunic, Bilišan, Mutilić, Brotnji, at least we can provide quality service in new cars so that they do not think about the quality of the water supplied, and I call on parallels to provide means for the construction of project documentation and the construction of the water pipeline itself to strengthen villages because there is no food supply without the village, but there is no life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3779	Let's move on, now it's party representatives' club with the name and last name of Smart and Glass and respected colleague Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3780	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In April 2018, the Citizens' Liberal Alliance GLAS sent a proposal for a conclusion on the opening of negotiations on amendments to the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, popularly called the Vatican Treaties. We did this because we thought and we still believe that Croatian citizens simply spend too much of their money to finance the Catholic Church and that these amounts should try to come to terms with reasonable frameworks. Then we received confirmation from the government that more than a billion kuna is allocated annually, so every adult citizen of the Republic of Croatia without anyone asking him anything a year gives more than 300 kuna for that one organization alone. This is, of course, just what is visible in the state budget at large items. The billion do not include various individual projects, hidden funds, or the money of municipalities, cities and counties that are generously funded by the Church. The estimate is real and double the amount, so around 2 billion and 600 kuna each year separates each of us. But as the 2 billion are combined, we have seen this also in a situation called the Community investment programme through which HDZ regional development and eu funds ministers in the last four years have distributed 53.2 million euro to the Church in a total of 58 million euro available. All other programmes of investment in the community involving schools, kindergartens, hospitals, theatres and universities combined with less than 5 million kunas. So it's not enough what we give every year from the state budget and the budget of cities, municipalities, counties, but it's not enough yet and it's never enough. European money is spent shamelessly to improve the lives of citizens in local communities. The highlight of the insolence is that this fund is also called the church fund by the halls of the ministry of miles. The current minister refuses to say whether this practice will continue, and does not want to give the public information about who were members of the committee that decided to award money, which is even worse than justice to GDPR, although we all know well together that citizens must also be informed about the names of the members of the commission and all the criteria under which the money is granted to projects. What we do know is that the church for its projects automatically received a number of points from, say, kindergartens, schools and hospitals. These were starting positions, so even starting positions weren't the same. This is a practice that we warn of and which we are sure should be stopped with all due respect, but also quality and life in the local community means much more than the church being completely calmed down. It would be good if an organisation that receives billions of kunas from citizens anyway at least in European money competitions did not trample everything in front of it and in a politically organized unfair game of the endless courtship of the HDZ to the clergy with which they then share the winning prey, and the losers were all others. In this case, which we state and about which indeed the Croatian public I hope is already well-acquainted, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, theatres and, in fact, everyone, all Croatian citizens are losers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3789	Now, a respected colleague, Branko Bacic, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3790	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to turn my back on the presentation of fellow Rasudiæ, which cited a democratic deficit marking the work of the National Civil Protection Staff in the Republic of Croatia during the course of the Covida-19 epidemic. We do not see or recognize the democratic deficit in the club of HDZ MPs in the work of the National Civil Protection Staff itself, because if it existed, according to us at the HDZ Representatives' Club and if we recognized it, we would certainly be the first to launch changes, legislative changes for then removing such a democratic deficit. Namely, the debate on the conduct of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the executive bodies in the Republic of Croatia in the course of when the health minister declared the Covida-19 epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, was conducted during the month and the month of April of this year. At that time, at the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me to be a two-thirds majority, but regardless, some measures, such as the amendment of the Civil Protection System Act, have been prescribed the way and the conduct of the Civil Protection Staff. Namely, art. 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in defined and found that the law could limit the individual rights and freedoms of Croatian citizens, therefore, by law, when it comes to the health of Croatian citizens, which in any case was the issue of the Covida-19 epidemic, and we are a team. 16 Based on amendments to the Civil Protection Act and the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, in particular on the basis of Article 16 of the Law on the system of civil protection and the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, 16. The Constitution in these amendments has moved and authorised the Civil Protection Staff, the Minister of Health, to take measures to combat the Covida-19 epidemic in the Republic of Croatia and we have never claimed that there would be an anti-constitutional decision taken by the Article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, often called for in the Croatian public opposition, including the president of the Republic of Croatia, where we have claimed, and then today, that the most effective measure to combat the epidemic is to enable a single professional body, such as the national headquarters, to prescribe measures that will try to contain the spread of the Covida-19 epidemic in the Republic of Croatia. That's what we said for the reason that we hold that decisions to contain the Covida-19 epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, which HS should make to the two-thirds majority, as prescribed by Article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia could not effectively defend against the COVID-19 epidemic. So we decided on a model based on the Constitution and that. 16. The constitution stipulates that the National Staff in the Republic of Croatia prescribes monitoring measures, with the supervision of what is very important, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I have said several times about this speaker, I will repeat this and now, none of the days of the COVID-19 outbreak in the Republic of Croatia has prevented the opposition from proposing a decision from the article. 17. The Republic of Croatia constitution that we would discuss here in HS. Such an act, such a draft or any such decision has not yet been seen by us except that often in HS, we hear about how it would have been better if HS had responded with the foundation of Article. 17. The Constitution of the I said on several occasions, and I will repeat now, that I would be interested in having the HS two-thirds majority decide on individual measures, for example on the work of a single market in the Republic of Croatia, for example on the number of guests at a single wedding, whether we, two-thirds majority, as mentioned here in HS several times by the opposition, should decide on the individual decisions of the National Staff which we here in HS should make by two-thirds majority. I believe that this may be difficult for the Parliament to respond to the spread of the epidemic because of the need for coordination, the harmonisation of the two-thirds majority of the individual measures. I therefore call on the opposition if it is possible to propose such a decision from the Article. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3791	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3793	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Bačić was injured by an article. 238. where it imposes essentially its theory by denying Mr. Rasputic about the National Civil Protection Centre where the truth is that the criteria and measures for all are equal. We need to know that the parliamentary representative from most of Mr. Hrebac was in self-insulation, and that he came to vote here, while the farmer who fertilized his vineyard ten kilometers in a circle had no one, so the criteria are not the same. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3794	Buddy Bull, time's up. Comrade Bull, please sit down. Today you have clearly decided to violate the Rules of Procedure, so I will now give you a warning because this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was pure replication, and my obligation is to give you a warning to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the debates, now it's the Green-left bloc's club and respected colleague Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3803	In 1917, Marija Jurić Zagorka sent a letter to this honorable home, the address of Croatian women to the Croatian Parliament asking for the right to vote for women. She pointed out that the nation was not divided into male and female, when his duties were assigned to him, and she was instructed why the people were divided into men and women when rights were granted to him. The question, the parliamentary elections showed us, according to them we got 35, elected 35 MPs. So does Croatia advocate, and does Croatia promote women's rights and gender equality policy? It is true to say that by today the number has increased to 47 women after again women have become secondary, because colleagues have received or preserved the responsibilities of the executive authority. Of course, politics is no different from other areas of work and public life, we know that in decision-making positions and governance structures to dominate men, while for women there is certainly a more significant number of positions left. Unfortunately, the majority of political parties and coalitions this year despite the Law on Gender Equality, that lists must have a balanced number of candidates and candidates, the law did not respect. The law also stipulates that, gradually, we were a young democracy, introduces such more equal representation of both sexes, and the law states that implementation should be after the third regular elections. These were the third parliamentary elections, and the law was not respected, which required 40% of the sub-represented sex, whether male or female. The law also provides for sanctions for non-compliance with either the lists or the systems on which women are placed on lists and, in particular, what has now happened. We all learned and especially women learned that the law and did not have to respect it and that it did not scare the parties, in part because they had not implemented it before and were not sanctioned. Of course, it is especially easier for large parties to pay the fine but to ensure equal representation of men and women. We expect that at least this time sanctions will be implemented and I believe that something about it will take care of the new Committee on Gender Equality. But the key question remains, can we trust the Government that gender equality is important to her when we know that no new national gender equality policy has been adopted since 2015 for whose creation and implementation of the Government's Office for Gender Equality? Five years? What is questionable about the document that we know is being prepared and which should be the basis for measures to improve women's position? The improvement of women including their position, including their position on the labour market, the situation in education, the fight against violence, participation in political life? Is the reason not to adopt a national policy afraid of using a native or armed language that understands gender and gender differences that have caused opposition to ratification of the Istanbul Convention and almost dissociated HDZ? Does the government still fear those who faked the truth by threatening us with men in dresses that will enter men's toilets? Look wonders, this has not happened so far as it has not happened that a parent has reported to the Ministry of Education that their children have been posted to them by opponents of the Istanbul Convention, on a jumbo cry, that they will tell children in schools that they have to decide whether they are male or female? If the old-new government has not inherited for its chairmanship, which is usually a subject of violence against women from its predecessor, and if it has not yet begun to systematically implement the Istanbul Convention, do not be surprised at the increased violence against women, let not be surprised at the increasing number of women's murders. While women continue to discriminate, their bodies would still be decided by others, others abused in the workplace, they are in this pandemic, by health workers cashier or teacher, showing [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] that they share their obligations equally and then belong to them equal rights. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3804	Thank you. The 7th row will be the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU and esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u3814	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here are 4 months since this adoption and adoption of laws or amendments to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance in HS. In the light of this law, it said that the big effects will have about 150, excuse me, for 200,000 citizens, and that it will cost at 150 million kuna level and it has already been 4 months, there has been a first adjustment of pensions, not an increase but a harmonisation, so the rule of law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 1.41 is very speculative because of the change of methodology in the mandate, so in the year in which the indexation takes place, so one indexation by one rule, the other or the harmonisation of the other by other rules, but here it is, the citizens, let them think about what is happening around them, it is not my power to change it, but those sitting in the administrative councils of HZMO, those sitting in the administrative councils of the State for Statistics, on their souls, that change of methodology at this moment. But it was supposed to follow, this 4 months it was supposed to follow what's going on with supplemental health insurance. Unfortunately, there has been no significant increase in the number of those instead of whom, due to censorship, due to income censorship, the government pays. The number of those who pay alone has increased since fear of covid. People when I was talking about this speaker that an increase in the price of 47 kuna is nothing, that it is an agreement and a request from Mr. Bandic to support most of Mr. Marić's retirement associations, no one believed it, and here you have the effects, there are the effects, you don't have to trust me, but nothing and dear citizens and colleagues and colleagues, don't believe me, but try every fact that I'm telling you here at this pay phone, try to think, try to think about what's benevolent to you, as a great effect, and at the end of the day, it turns out crumbs from the table or under the table. Think about it, be aware of the citizens. This is my last term, I no longer intend to be in, in politics, this mandate I will do fair as I have until now and I will talk to you about the effects of the laws that are being passed here, it's my job. It's my job, to study the laws, and to bring together all the laws that apply to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to all the pensioners, not to give us a Christmas card just for those who are lucky to have good budgets, but all the pensioners, for all the pensioners is Christmas, all the pensioners need health care. Gentlemen, in September 2018, you promised Mr Pavić to resolve this in a quality way in inter-resorship cooperation with the other ministries. You haven't solved it. You've solved the pressure of the associations through Mr. Bandic this year. Is that Parliamentarian's job? Is that the job of this legislative body? I don't think so. 15 years old. up to these 47 kunas is not a harmonised price for supplementary health insurance and our bill has been bad for you, but you have prescribed the effects of our bill, which envisioned an increase in censorship of 400 kn. Now face the results. Now face the results. Just so you know, I am announcing to you the re-amendments and additions of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, referring to additional health insurance which will be directed by the HSS and HSU Club in the parliamentary procedure and just so you know that I remind you, you who are new to HS, 2019 in the winter months the pensioners collected more than 50,000 signatures of support deposited in the Croatian Parliament, but obviously this ruling coalition did not mean anything to us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5104	We've come to the end of free debates, so now we're moving on to the agenda. - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Noise Protection Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 14 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 14 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative now to give an additional explanation? With us is a respected Tomislav Dulibic State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. The proposed provisions of the law propose noise protection measures to prevent excessive noise emissions from being generated or to reduce existing noise levels to the permitted levels while noise protection is mandatory to implement and ensure the implementation of the body of the state administration, units of local and regional self-government and legal and natural persons performing registered activities. The legislative proposal complements and amends the provisions of the applicable law relating to the instruments of harmonisation or ensuring the implementation of Regulation 2019/1010 amending certain provisions of Directive 2002/49 on the assessment and management of noises of the environment in such a way as to introduce a new definition of data repositories establishing an information system with the European Environment Agency containing information and information on noise of the environment. Furthermore, the existing deadlines for the European Commission's reporting on the preparation of strategic noise maps and action plans for environmental noise management are rationalised and new deadlines are set, the obligation to make available to the public of strategic noise maps and action plans, as well as the obligation to provide updated information by electronic means to the competent authority and the European Commission. The legislative proposal also proposes to bring the current concepts in line with the terms of specific rules governing the issue of an environmental authorisation. In the process of issuing a decision on the conditions of construction and the local authorisation under the special law, it is prescribed that the sanitary inspector of the State Inspectorate participates in the procedure of determining the conditions or confirmation of compliance with the measures relating to the implementation of the noise protection measures, thus harmonising the legislative proposal with the provisions of the Law on the State Inspectorate. In the part relating to the establishment of minimum technical conditions for the performance of economic activities, it is in line with the provisions of the State Administration System Act. After all... we propose to adopt this bill to HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5106	Before we move to replicas, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5107	I'd like to warn you that an officer has been injured. 14. The Rules of Procedure under which each representative and representative have the right, but also the obligation to participate in discussions in this place. You have explained the measure by which MPs may not be present in the Assembly. 239.a., it is not possible to explain it because there are other than physical presence and other ways in which replicas can be set.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5108	Comrade Peovic, please sit down. This is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So there are measures that you can challenge this business definition that we have in art. In 293a, you can contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system or, as your colleague has already announced, ask the constitutionality of these provisions, but please do not participate in this debate because it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5109	It wasn't my intention. I just wanted to warn you that the people outside this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5110	Okay, thank you very much. I didn't give you my word. We can't. So we can't argue that way that you take a word whenever you want, because if that's what happens, then 151 MPs could talk and do whatever they want. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you consider the opposite, you may address the committee responsible. Before the replica, a colleague called Bulj and asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5111	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the point of the Noise Act. It is evident that, before I begin to say that there is a lack of democraticism, that the democratic procedure here is injured by the parliamentary representatives because of the crown of the crisis, and I agree here, and I think that the opposition should react much more sharply to what is happening. And as for the very noise and copying of the regulations, the EU directive, I can only say that in reality certain things are now being transferred to the counties because of the law passed in state bodies, which is being transferred to the county. However, I will point out here that the law in the area which is directly distributed by the mayor of the Ministry of Economy is essentially a pest, and I will talk about the miners. Here, before 21.6. in Koprivne, it hit so many mines that it was a bigger earthquake, that it was measured, probably than in Zagreb, so people have huge damages, this area where people are now working trying to deal with tourism, they've cracked the pools, they've got huge damage, no one's controlling if the County of Split-Dalmatia is directly evolved into these works around the miners. We also have a similar in the municipality of Lovrec, in Medovo Doc, where there is also a culturally good HDZ man working i.e. from the former chief's uncle doing the mining, also recently mined, say people that it was a huge, huge earthquake, a mine that was banned, shaked half of the Imotian landscape, no one reacts, most of it became an all-exploitation field, not the environment, but on the contrary, the noise is created, incredible, incredible. The question is, what is this and what is the point? And here we have now and in my Cetina region, we've been born of a number of miners, exploiting fields, so we have Poljak's Greda, in Dicm Imber, but people have started to rebel and oppose. That's enough law-prescription to overwrite What's in reality? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5112	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 36 minutes. It's 10.31 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:37 A.M.]] Let's go with the replicas. First, a respected colleague, Bulj, appeared after a replica of the applicant's presentation. Please sit down so that fellow Bull may speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5114	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health, all the regulations, the directives that we make, we copy essentially don't mean anything. During the break, I cited countless examples of this where in the mines, the exploitation fields create so much noise from mineding that it is literally an earthquake much bigger than it was in Zagreb, mainly in the region of Dalmatia and Dalmatia, where the environment is naturally destroyed, and most of all, the creation is being, I listed examples in the Imotski region, in my Cetina region and in the hinterland, in the Split-Dalmatia County. Why? Because we make laws only if we passed them, and not if they were applied, is that if they were applied then surely Croatia would go forward, surely these areas would be crowded, not culturally well-being, which is protected from giving a relative from Commissioner Luic to mine, exploiting in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5115	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5116	Dear fellow Bull, so we're passing laws with the intention of respecting them as such. If you have certain knowledge that the laws are not respected, then you are obliged to report them to the competent authorities, i.e. competent inspections for further handling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5117	Second replica, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5118	Thank you very much. This amendment and the addition of the law that we have before us by the respected state secretary is related to the EU Directive, otherwise the theme of noise is one of the very important topics and the topic that must be, the special maps of noise related to spatial planning that must be integrated to see how and where and what can be planned at all. The subject of change and supplementation was not one provision that I ask you about, and that may be on the trail of my opening presentation, so we really have the tradition of church bells. And people don't mind that, but there's this problem with those church bells, you have a provision that says it applies to everything except religious objects, especially for the night hours. So in smaller places that are related to tourism, little and especially regret the night section. Is there any possibility that I can define that I don't know at any time of night at least from midnight to 5:00 a.m. Those church bells don't ring. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5119	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5120	Thank you very much. The esteemed parliamentary deputies mean church bells are excluded from the law and as such will not be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5121	Last line, Comrade Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, the Law on Noise is represented by the Ministry of Health, I am interested in what experiences are experienced in other EU countries, and why has the Republic of Croatia decided to keep this law in the care of the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5123	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5124	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian Celic means in European countries there are different experiences, in several countries it is with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in a certain number of the Ministry of Health, Croatia has decided to be in the Ministry of Health because we have a special interest in protecting people's health from the direct and indirect effects of noise and reducing the impact of noise on human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5125	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, respected Renata Sabelak Dračevac, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5126	I got it right, okay. Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government and all fellow Members and colleagues, I welcome you. Therefore, at the first meeting of the Committee held on 3 September 2020, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 14 which has been delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 27 September, August 2020. The Committee discussed the proposal for a law as a home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening part of the proposal, the representative explained that this legislative proposal complements and amends the provisions of the applicable law concerning the instruments of harmonisation or ensuring the implementation of the EU Regulation of 2019/1010 amending certain provisions of Directive 2002/49 on the assessment and management of noises of the environment. As pointed out by the proposed provisions of the law, noise protection measures are proposed to prevent excessive noise emissions from being generated or to reduce the existing noise level to the permitted level while noise protection is mandatory to implement and ensure its implementation by state administration bodies, units of local and regional and regional self-government and legal and natural persons performing registered activities. Consistency with the provisions of specific rules governing the issue of an environmental permit has been carried out while in the process of issuing the local authorisation of specific conditions, confirmation of the main project, building permit or the applicable authorisation under the special law, the sanitary inspector of the State Inspectorate shall participate in the procedure to determine the conditions or to confirm compliance with the conditions of noise protection. Furthermore, a new definition of data repositioning has been introduced, streamlining and setting new deadlines for the European Commission's reports on the strategic maps of noise and action plans. The obligation to make available to the public of strategic maps of noise and action plans as well as the obligation to provide information by electronic means to the competent authority and the European Commission shall be prescribed. The provisions of the law shall comply with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act and the provisions of the State Administration System Act. During the debate, everyone agreed that the impact of noise on human health is of great importance, they also expressed their satisfaction with the proposed legal solution by which the bonds of making strategic noise cards will be delivered every five years to the competent ministry and, where appropriate, in accordance with the changes in space and audit. Following the discussion, the members of the Health and Social Policy Committee decided unanimously to propose HS to adopt the following conclusion: "A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act is hereby adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final proposal of the Law.’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5127	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. The first is the club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5128	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act submitted to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 27 August 2020, this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. This law in the Croatian legislation adopts the EU Parliament and Council Directive of 25 June 2002 on the assessment and management of noise from the environment last amended by the EU Parliament and Council Regulation of 5 June 2019 on the harmonisation of reporting obligations in the field of environment-related legislation. The Noise Protection Act lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on human health caused by noise noise, including noise disturbances, in particular by establishing noise exposure in such a way as to produce noise maps based on noise assessment methods, ensuring availability of environmental noise data, making action plans based on data used in making noise maps. The protection against noise is mandatory to implement and ensure its implementation by the state administration, local and regional self-government units and legal and natural persons carrying out their registered activities. The inspection of the application of that law and the regulations adopted pursuant to it shall be carried out by the sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate. Where the local self-government unit allows public events or approves registered family facilities to be used in the open space after 24 hours, the supervision of the decisions and acts referred to above shall be in the jurisdiction of those units of local self-government which take of course administrative and infringement measures. The obligation to make strategic noise maps and action plans stemming from the law have populated areas that are higher than 100,000 inhabitants, the main roads with more than 3 million vehicle passages per year, the main railway lines with more than 30,000 train crossings per year, the main airports with more than 50,000 operations and including take-off and landings per year. The proposed law introduces a new concept of data repositories, which is the information system managed by the European Environment Agency, which contains information and information on noise from the environment, which is available through the National Data Reporting and Exchange Authority, i.e. strategic noise maps and action plans, are part of the information system for environmental protection of the Republic of Croatia and constitute a professional basis for the development of business plans in the process of strategic assessment of the impact of the plan and of the environmental programme. The strategic noise maps shall be coordinated with the changes in the space, and shall be renewed every five years from the date of manufacture and from the date of approval. Action plans shall be reviewed and audited where necessary in case of major changes affecting the existing noise situation and at least every 5 g. After the date of approval of those plans. Strategic noise maps and action plans shall be drawn up and approved in accordance with the deadlines prescribed by this law. In the process of issuing an allocation permit, special conditions, confirmations of the main project, building permits or applicable permits, according to a special, special law governing those areas, the sanitary inspector of the State Inspectorate shall participate in the purpose of establishing the conditions or confirmation of compliance with the conditions relating to the implementation of the noise protection measures. According to the World Health Organization, noise is the second most serious cause of health problems caused by the environment immediately after polluted air. Noise is the poison of modern life and a major health problem, damage to people as well as passive smoking. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this bill not only because of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation but also because it will regulate and control the level of noise that crosses the recommended values and which multiplely threatens human health and hearing. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5129	Thank you. Now we're going to the Department of Homeland Movement Club, two of them are MPs, a colleague of Pracacin, and then a colleague of Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5130	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all of you are warmly welcomed, I am pleased to go out for this address post-25. Or a little over the age of 25. Because this is where I first appeared just over 30 years ago, so I spent two short terms, then 25 years. The pauses, so here I am again, which is why I'm having a little bit of a kinky introduction to this more formal greeting, otherwise there won't be a big theater with me because I'm seeing this place as a workplace. This may also be tomorrow's battle arena and boxing ring, but in a conveyed meaning, I hope that this reckoning will not be here, but certainly stage for some kind of estradisation and some kind of model make-up, I believe it won't be. So, you won't mind me, a little memory has worked out, so a little emotion has woken up, etc., so now let me tell you what made me come out for this pay phone. Actually, before that, there's something else. Since I've been waiting 25, 6 years. And now here's a 40th and a few days, so I thought and wished for a slightly more attractive problem, a question, a law, to appear here. However, my colleagues from the Homeland Movement know that I have been with noise, my own noise and the noise around me broken the spear for the last 10 years, that I have written complaints, performances, even constitutional lawsuits and in the Democratic Movement the decision has fallen to me to come out and step forward, although I claim that we are the most democratic party, may vote as anyone wills, I am even told to say what I think about it, but, therefore, I must speak. However, there is one more good thing and a happy circumstance that this opportunity is for me, when I look back at this law, it is an opportunity to talk about one of the biggest anomalies of the Croatian state because the Croatian state is in an extremely difficult state, I will repeat this to Caton the Elder in the Roman Senate, though he has repeated that he should be with Cartagena reckoning, and I will repeat what I said and without a parliament, that in the Croatian state the situation is very bad, and that it does not have to be, that someone is guilty, that this is false ignorance and thief. Now, when I think about these two and talk about it, I don't know what the greater evil is. Often, unscrupulous thieves are a major problem of the state, and they can be both cunning and borderline, and busting the ignorant create a much bigger problem. Now here, we had exceptions, we had Sanader who was a nabusite, who was pretentious, who was a thief and who was an ignorant, otherwise intelligent man, but he was ignorant and he did what he did and as I said, the Croatian state is not by chance in the problem in which he is. You dear colleagues have often mentioned all the problems, and conversion, and privatisation, and bribery, and corruption, etc., but I think it should be a little more precise in determining the reasons and causes of such a difficult situation in the Croatian state. One of the main reasons is bad legislation. We build into laws the elements of thieving. In Croatia, laws are most often done in such a way as to dissipate, and special changes and additions to the law are so. I know when I was in '93. from the wartime from BiH came to this parliament, accidentally a piece of paper came from the assembly material on which it stood "in privatisation companies business policy will be guided by the size of the shares entered, and the profits will be divided according to the size of the paid shares", which seems very convenient because let's say, for example, I write 60% shares and pay 5%, you enter 10 and pay all 10, we share so that you get twice as much as I do, that you get 10, and I get 5. But that's just an example. There are elements and opportunities for me running business policy to run it so we don't make any money. And how it started in '93. That's how it goes from day to day. And so I came to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Noise, and I remembered, or I must pass on to you, which is why I ended up with this law in the Constitutional Court. Namely, this is the most vulnerable and saddest and saddest law that has been passed in HS, he's vulnerable, he's been hit from all sides even I think I've written something somewhere, I hate to read those notes, but I'm going to have to, why the Noise Protection Act is not protected from the violation of another law. So, in one play, I referred her to five addresses in the government of the Republic of Croatia during the SDP government. No one answered me, I think even if it was Mrs. Dark Taritash's ministry, it's better they didn't answer anything that didn't look like it. In fact, the telephone called me Minister Ostojić praised my literary paper, which was convenient for him, so that you can see what amused him, which was convenient for him to hear, which is actually one very, very important thing in the conduct of Croatian state policy. So, when I cited the fundamental difference, when I cited the opposite between the Law on the Protection of Noise and each other's laws, it was the Law on Attending and Tourism Activities which I found here, with a letchical view, that according to the Law on Noise Protection, the day starts at 7am and lasts until 19:00, the evening between 19 and 23, and the night between 23 and 7am. And I find in the Household and Tourism Act that allows living places to work nights, and that's where all the problems arise. And let me read you an interesting detail of this play, for the aforementioned Sanader-Kalmeta's absoluteism of the darkened mind, the government proposed, and the Parliament voted the Law on the catering activity by which in art. Paragraph 1 of Article 8(1) reads ‘how objects and soup bars can work from 6 to 24’. I would like to warn you that in a group of bars according to the Regulation of the classification of catering facilities art. 5. are located next to three nightclubs night club, night bar, disco club, several classic living places such as coffee shop, coffee bar, brewery, buffet, pub, tavern, cellar, etc., these are other facilities for which the legislator does not require special conditions for working at night. According to the Law on the Protection against Noise Art. The 5th night starts at 11:00, so they're all going into night work. And that's not all in this above-mentioned article. 8. Law on the catering activity of St. 2, the legislator allows the representative body of local self-government to extend the work... until 2 hours after half-night. I can't help but count the coffee shop, the bar, the pub, the buffet, the pub, the tavern, and even the basement with a simple act become nightclubs. Insane in combination with political power has produced such acts that did not take account of the same Parliament's voted Noise Protection Act and to whom this legislative decision is contrary. Although this law is also contrary to itself because bars are divided into day and night, which is really and fundamentally divided into hospitality, and then that daily, nighttime is simply the opposite of common sense. Buffett and the basement are nightclubs? So is there anyone normal in the tourism ministry to at least be ashamed of this? That was what made some laugh. But there's something very interesting about the show or the constitutional lawsuit, which I think is a precedent. I don't know if it happened in HS? You have in HS two passed laws that are opposite each other and no one could answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5131	Thank you very much, colleague Pracchin, but unfortunately time is up right now. I'll get you a few now, I've got a few remarks if I may. [[I'd like you to honor me with a minute, two given the opportunity.]] Here's a few remarks. [[Intruder: But this is the most important.]] First, I'd like to welcome you back and I'm very glad to have you back, and I remember you from those years, and I'm glad you're back with us. That's the first thing. The second thing is, Dretar's colleague has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I guess he wanted to point out that he has to speak too, and now he's not going to be able to. And the third in one significant part of the exposure you didn't stick to the subject so it's my duty to warn you that you have to stick to the subject, but then you're very skillfully back on the subject, so here's what I'm not going to mention right now. I can't honor you, I'm sorry. [[/Intruder: So with this minute you'll still honor me?]] We're moving on with the debate. It is now up to counterpart Renata Sablar Dračevac of the SDP Representatives' Club. And I'm sorry, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is another colleague of DRetar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5132	Here's a nice greeting, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues, respected fellow MPs and MPs. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5134	Good afternoon. Once again, of course, I welcome all present, and here we have been changed by the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Secretary of State and the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I won't be half as interesting as my colleagues in front of me. So, what I'd like to say is, the SDP club will support the amendment and supplementation of the Noise Protection Act. It is about harmonising with EU regulations, citizens will have far better protection, but they will also have knowledge of what kind of noise they are being exposed to. Strategic noise maps and action plans will have to be made available to the public, and their regular update, strategic noise maps, will be mandatory. .../incomprehensible/...it is also mandatory to make strategic maps of noise new, every 5 years and these data must be regularly delivered to the European Commission. So that's what's good in this law and we certainly support it, but what we're afraid of, we're afraid, as colleagues have already stated, of implementing measures or how this will be done, given that there are a lot of participants in this process. So, reading the public debate, many citizens have complained about the cafes exactly, as a colleague once said, about dogs barking, and I have been warned by those who participate in local self-government, that nightclubs should get the consent of local self-government. So it's not a noise problem until the moment the door is closed because it's all checked out. But very often, so it comes out, the door opens, and then there's a big problem in these little places. Of course, there is this combination of tourist in both, especially in the coastal part, the tourist aspect, means cafes themselves, nightclubs, or noises in that part, and of course, there are citizens who live and who need peace. So what I would like to point out and should, therefore, mean to make sure that night clubs get the consent of local, or suggest local self-government. So, this bill of law, it's in the interest of citizens and the SDP Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5135	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Mrak-Taritash in front of the Party Representatives Club with a name and name, Smart and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5136	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of HS, distinguished state secretaries with co-operation, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on noise protection in first reading, which, by law in the Croatian legislation, adopts EU directives and is about directives which, therefore, have been adopted since 25 June 2002, and then, as already goes, that I am not repeating it and need not repeat it. The theme of noise is a theme that certainly, regardless, causes an absolute consequence to our fellow citizens' lives. We think it is extremely good to define the way people, or our fellow citizens, will have the opportunity to see both maps and strategic maps and everything else. But we do come up with some things, so the theme of these maps and the theme of how you can somehow define noise protection goes from spatial planning. We recognise spatial planning at EU level about 2 directions. One direction is sectoral, so each sector plans for itself, and the other direction is integrated. We've opted for integrated spatial planning because all of this that's in this law actually has a consequence in the spatial plan. What exactly am I trying to say? You also saw through the argument that people complained about cafes, nightclubs, complained about dog barking, so we have this very interesting verdict where that unfortunate dog Bear was convicted and he shouldn't bark in the neighborhood, really, which caused it, which showed our situation in our judiciary, but that's not the topic here. I've been walking around this world for a long time and I remember and I remember and a series of things we've been through and we've had a chance to see. Some countries in their spatial planning system have spaces that are exclusively intended for housing and in these areas intended for housing, say, when you travel a little, you can, this is a great example of Scandinavian country, Netherlands or Denmark, you have spaces that are intended for housing. And in the areas that are spatially designed for housing, there can be nothing else. You can't be, they don't even have shops or cafes or nightclubs, nothing, nothing else, so they're exclusively meant for housing and, of course, that noise problem isn't like us. We've always decided on mixed purposes. Mixed purposes allow you to have room for other purposes along with the apartment. I remember, there are many years, one building got its locational, or at that time it was already a locational license, a building permit and a useful permit. On the ground floor, these buildings were business premises intended for business premises. The permits say that these spatial spaces can be different purposes. In order to be a catering content, that they could be shops, that they could be different content and, of course, everyone about them in their authorisation process had to get the consent of a sanitary inspector like now and his permission to work. It happened that one of the buildings had 11 cafes. And then the competent authority, when the request came for the 12th denied demand and said, there's 11, there's no need for the community for that much. That 12th started all the processes, ended up in the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court ruled or made a decision that as far as all the cafes are concerned, you can't say the first one that can be a cafe, and the other one can't. So all these laws and this law actually has its consequence, so you apply it to citizens through strategic maps and everything else, but it also has its consequence in spatial planning. As long as we have a local purpose in spatial planning, you can't say, now we have three cafes, and four or three restaurants, four can't. Anyone who meets the conditions can. There we should and we have some you can see those who do a little more spatial planning and we have spaces that are intended for the apartment so-called. They are marked yellow about in spatial plans, such as these of our clubs, which we look for replicas, but we have in the spatial plan, but extremely with these and these conditions, it is possible and it is also a mixed purpose. Whether we're ready through spatial plans really really have exclusively individual purposes, the moment we're ready then there'll be much less of these noise-related remarks. So, it doesn't have a direct consequence, but everyone like this reads it as technical regulations, you have a direct consequence first on spatial plans, and then on issuing permits, but the permit is just what the spatial plan is. I'm also on the Legislative Committee, and I'm going to have one comment here on this law. This remark refers to Article 6 where, behind the present paragraph 5, which becomes 4, a new one is added, which is actually the case. When it comes to rules defining certain technical norms, and this is about a regulation that defines, inter alia, the procedure and the way in which certain things are defined, the dimensions of individual spaces are defined. Such regulations were always agreed by the minister responsible for matters of spatial planning and construction. Or we, you'll see a little bit, we have through our legislation often case that as rail tracks, everyone leads their own way, eventually a little bit of those tracks intersect, but we pretend when, as if there's nothing else. The point is always that when you have some technical normative, which technically defines something that is related either to spatial plans or to designing that a minister in charge of spatial planning and construction should give consent to such a rule. With this amendment and the addition of the law, you decided that more of this minister's consent is gone, so either we decided to go to some new methodology now, it seems to me that it's not going to be good, because you're going to have problems, but in the very issue of local or construction permits if there are any, so you're going to be okay from your point of view, but from the point of view of some other regulations on the size of the space, about the height of some kind of cubicity to show everything else not to open that problem, I think it's a good thing to keep it all going, so you've decided here with the amendment and the addition of the law to something else. Today we have this first set of laws where we actually comply with EU legislation. Some laws or things related to the EU are applied directly and we are then installing our legislation, you have decided to go into 2 readings, although it is possible and different by EU law and I appreciate the effort to go into 2 readings because then I can say and some remarks can be defined through the debate and some other things so that I appreciate that it is good through 2 readings because then we can say some things about it. It is here when it comes to noise, especially the highways are highlighted, i.e. the airports are highlighted. There are maps of noise protection especially when it comes to flying over the plane, but all that's in this law really has a consequence in spatial planning. These things are good, technically they're fine, we're going to have to control them through spatial plans because what our citizens and our citizens always say they're talking about the consequences, and the consequence is that this is an entry, and the consequence is something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5137	Thank you, too. Now it's time for Mr. Silvano Hrelja to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5138	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had the privilege of being licensed, licensed to measure noise in the industry 30 years ago when it wasn't as simple as any, every measurement had to be recalculated. Today it's quite simple, Bruel & Kjaer Danish tool manufacturer for measuring this noise is significantly, significantly advanced, modernized technology and today it's quite simple, simple to do, however quite expensive, expensive instruments, expensive procedures, long-term procedures, and essentially noise protection is very simple. It rests on a very simple postulate. The farther we are from the source of the noise, the more we are protected. We in Croatia with such a small number of people in such a large space should not have one such big, big problem at all. So that's the basic postulate of noise protection. You can put various materials between the source and the man, but the cheapest thing is to get away from the source of the noise. So, I agree, I agree with what counterpart Mrak Taritash said that with spatial planning, we must solve protection, protection from noise. So, this ministry essentially, the role of this ministry is to fight the consequences of excessive noise both in cafes and nightclubs and those music that is enjoyed through headphones, either in disco clubs or wherever people gather, those consequences that leave on the cardiovascular system, on vetbularis, so the center for balance, so on psychophysical health, that's the role of this ministry. So, noise protection is this ministry's unwanted child. What do they have to do with it? They face the consequences, but there are the tasks of proposing to the HS of this law. In fact, they're doing it right. But does that make any sense? The problem cannot be done as a respected colleague says, driving along one rail. This problem can be solved in a cross-resor, 30. This country has not developed a system of coordination and inter-resorial problem-solving. We ask ourselves, what kind of society are we, what kind of society are we when we say that the problems of excessive noise will be solved by the state inspectorate? Based on what? Come with a finger like this and say excessive noise? For what? How? My people, why don't you have a power problem? You have an electrotechnical manual that's been valid for 70 years, from the start when it's being set up, you start to set up an electrical installation, you know exactly where you can put it. The question of noise and noise protection is normatives that do not belong to this ministry. The noise protection norms in industry, thank God we don't have there, thank God, unfortunately we've destroyed everything, all that noisy industry, there's still a little bit of work going on somewhere in some boatyard of Đuri Đaković, or you don't have it, so in textiles, there's no textiles, there's no noise industry, unfortunately there's no people to work with, there we have to follow the normatives, there we should have regulations and regulations on noise protection, we don't have. So, of course, there is one benefit to this law, at least it will not object to the EU that we do not comply with EU norms, but to accept European legislation without objection, without justification, without our specificities, without inter-resoring the problem is very difficult, and this law results in a very large commitment to the JLS. Will the same way have to measure the noise and make a map of the noise one Oprtalj or Strizivojna or do I not know which small municipality and City of Zagreb? My people, the problem of noise based on that postulate that I initially said that the only protection from noise is away from the source of noise is the problem of urban environments. How does this problem solve? Spacious planning. In Zagreb where the distance between the buildings of the roads is larger, there is more protection in New Zagreb, protection from noise. In the old part of Zagreb, you can do this to trams that are almost unheard, which are less vibrating because you can't affect the facades, you have to, protected as a cultural good, so you have a lot of problems. Good noise protection can be done with good planning and new construction. In old construction, it's a very, very expensive procedure. We like to avoid all these protective measures, and then we have loud elevators in the multi-story, so we hear from the third floor if a woman on the 7th or a man yells at a woman or woman on the 7th floor and all that is heard, so also the standard of technical construction we have, we don't respect. And now here we have the Ministry of Health who proposes to bring the Law on Noise Protection into line with European legislation, neither guilty nor debtor. Congratulations to the proposer who sincerely admitted it to our committee. The first time I've been such a confession since I heard in HS, that they have to, but they don't know what to do, what to do with it. I congratulate them on that honesty, so that's how we should talk, that's how we should talk about it. My people, the famous saying is our folk saying "give the child to the mother", give this to the Ministry of Construction which deals with spatial planning, let the machine normative, part of the Ministry of Economy if we have what's left of that economy, to protect from noise in industrial plants, etc., something already exists, we don't exist since yesterday, protecting the work of many years of experts, don't make commitments to those who don't actually have the need, where one tractor passes in, in this hour or 3 personal vehicles in an hour. What noise, what are we talking about? People who are nervous, who will react to any sound, to any moped that passes or, or this engine that passes, will always be and always be, but all of it, there is absolutely no protection from any current noise overrun, we are fighting and we have to fight the continuous noise that is being created and which due to the construction, because of the non-compliance of technical norms appears in some place, yet there we too have to intervene as legislators and God of technical service, but I think our system is wrongly set up. Of course we won't be against coordination and doing damage to ourselves and our club will support this law in the first reading, but I ask you, it's good that this is in two readings, to think about what we're doing, whether we're doing a wasteful job, and to impose on someone a job that this really unwanted child, or an area where the Ministry of Health is dealing with really consequences, not causes, and the causes need to be solved at the very beginning, not resulting, but at the very beginning. Therefore, my appeal is a good will to make this right, to continue to edit, not to exaggerate our obligations to units of local self-government, to be aware of our specificities in Croatia, to give a diet to the mother and give more inter-resortly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5139	Green-left bloc representatives' club is now up and will be spoken by Mr Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5140	I thank the Chairman for his words. The law on noise protection is one of the many important things both environmental and health laws or should be in the Republic of Croatia and other EU Member States. According to the World Health Organization, some people may not know that noise is another environmental cause of health problems that people feel because of environmental influences. So after the polluted air, the noise is exactly the second biggest problem for the health of people coming from environmental impacts, so that from this perspective this law can be as presented by the Ministry of Health, but theoretically it could be by the Ministry of Environmental Protection or by the new Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. In fact, we have even in the EU annually for those who consider noise to be something that only bothers us, which has no impact on health, it may need to be reminded of the fact that according to the European Commission, 43,000 visits to the hospital are due to health effects caused by noise and about 10,000 premature deaths per year, mainly related to cardiovascular diseases affecting both noise and noise. The biggest cause of noise in cities is traffic, and in this sense these maps of noise are very important, this is important spatial planning, it is a matter of prevention, systematic noises that citizens can feel so that in this sense this is something that we welcome both at EU level and something that is now being applied to Croatian legislation. However, it should also be said when we are talking about the Law on Protection against Noise that there are a lot of exceptions in this law that are not regulated at all by this law. These are military facilities, religious objects, cultural goods, there are sports activities some standards such as noise inside the vehicle, there is actually even noise from animals are also not included, so that the Bear dog that was previously mentioned was not tried under the Law on the Protection of Noise but through these property relations as it disrupted the enjoyment of real estate, neighbors sued Meda so Medo was imprisoned and detained. All right. This is even the fifth time that the Noise Protection Act has changed over the past seven years, which I think is also not a very good practice, and there are a lot of nomotechnical errors, some of them are now trying to correct these changes, meaning not only alignment with the acquis of the EU but also with eu directives that are also constantly changing but also some nomotechnical errors that have occurred in past amendments to the law, some of which I will quote. I say, more changes to this focus on preventing the continuation of systemic noise and from that perspective are these maps, from that perspective is spatial planning that should be organised in another way. However, what is already mentioned in the debate, and in my practice when speaking to citizens and when citizens complain and when citizens complain about certain noise problems, cafes, nightclubs and public events with temporary outdoor facilities are already mentioned, these are mostly reasons why citizens are talking to me as a city representative for example in the City of Zagreb and there are already mentioned some of these problems by other colleagues from other clubs. In that sense, what concerns me is, of course, the implementation of this law and the implementation of those standards, in particular from the perspective of the capacity of inspectorates, the State Inspectorate, or the Sanitary Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate, from the perspective that a good part means the greatest standards of noise protection should be at night, and then those inspectors should be available at night so that they can determine on the spot whether there is a breach of the rules or not, so that the person who does so can be punished on the spot. And now imagine at night all over Croatia the capacity of inspectors to do such a thing. And I'm not sure, I'm actually convinced they're not adequate, and then we have problems implementing that law and implementing the standards of this law and other sublegal acts in everyday life itself. Many citizens feel that whenever they complain most of the time the police come, they say report to the inspection, they report, and what if the measurements come, and later on, it just doesn't make sense. In particular, I think that the problematic electroacoustic sources of noise are out in the open, meaning in temporary facilities at various public manifestations, for example advent, for example some other fairs on public surfaces. Since these are temporary objects, they do not measure when obtaining a useful permit but when they are set, they often increase the intensity and volume of music very often. It is particularly disturbing for citizens in these as we have heard mixed areas where living areas are, especially in the city centers. And in that sense, I think it's bad too. 10th that says that JLS's decision by representative bodies can determine the streets where they can exceed the permitted noise levels. Now to make things worse, control of it, those JLS decisions when they can set streets, public areas and shops where they can exceed the level of noise, not for the sake of the state inspectorate, but for the sake of municipal redistribution. So JLS makes a decision, says here on these public surfaces we're going to go beyond the noise level, and then when citizens complain then control or control these JLS decisions for the communal redistribution of these JLS. I think it's a bad, bad, bad way and I know it's bad because I know it from practice because people call me all the time, especially when these public manifestations are and I think it should be regulated differently. You actually in these amendments of the law are just changing that article. 16 where it says it, but only for these nomotechnical reasons. You had, the wrong item you instructed in previous amendments to the law, so now you're correcting it technically, but I would ask you to perhaps consider and essentially whether it makes sense that municipal redistribution is actually the control of the implementation when these, when JLS representative bodies bring certain exceptions to noise protection standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5141	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5142	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government. When we talk about the environment, in this case there is noise which is one of the major environmental problems and which needs to be seen seriously if there are many people in the EU, and in Croatia over 10% have problems due to noise. According to road traffic, the most important thing is that it is, in urban areas where noise is unnatural. We have significant difficulties in people who are increasing and heart disease, which means in the EU is about 100 million people, if 10, if 20, excuse 20%, and if in the Republic of Croatia that number goes this and up to half a million of our citizens. So the noise is regulated in a way that in the EU in cities i.e. The EU tends to, as in, in mainly certain cities, create its reserves in urban areas where pedestrian zones are created, where vehicles, vehicles are banned, where noise is solved in a way that people can simply get somewhere, cycling is promoted. However, in the Republic of Croatia, we are the only thing we get from this directive and we are doing very little, in fact, about reality in the Republic of Croatia, and the noise again is I repeat the second, as regards the very impact on human health behind the rising dust particles, the second cause of the greatest impact on human health, of course, and the environment. So if we're talking about the environment and noise, it's not one topic, the peripheral theme, so the noise was, it wasn't. Mostly in urban areas where we have even at local levels this regulation on communal order where noise regulation is regulated, but no one respects it. It is very little respected, so mainly in urban centres, simply this noise from business space is simply causing people enormous damage as I said we have a number of problems mostly children in development, there are thousands of problems from year to year, heart patients are increasing due to insomnia and other problems, and even some are now having problems. This is already applied to traffic, is traffic being as the biggest cause, due to traffic being targeted by asphalt special quality to reduce noise in these areas. As I said, we have a well-preserved nature, but in, in the environment, we don't behave that way. I mentioned here at first the key problem when we talk about dust noise, we have a number of mines in the Republic of Croatia, exploitation fields, even in culturally good places where we shouldn't be, where the mafia is wasteful, ecological, what it's called, exploitative, in our neighborhoods like in my Dalmatian Zagora, exploit certain fields, if there aren't enough people, there's not enough pressure, these are the Pharaohs connected to the party's infrastructure, where they exploit and indeed here, for example. I got the problem of Koprivna where people invest in tourism, so it's the back of Split or Lovreč, Imotski krajina, where people invest in swimming pools, houses to stay there in the area, is that the new content. But what happened a few months ago in, in, in, in Medov's Doc, where, of course, a political person got a miner in a protected, culturally protected area, means that it was protected. We're talking about some kind of noise map, so there shouldn't be any noise at all, let alone a miner. People say that in the evening, about 10 o'clock, such an explosion from a mine that was banned was that it was an earthquake that people were so afraid it was impossible. So in Koprivne, broken pools, people invest to survive, houses that invest in it, mostly older houses, so it's uncontrollable. Why? We've been here for four months, discussing the transfer of state administration, the administration's office to the county, and the counties are the biggest problem. And that field of exploitation goes like this, half to me, half to the campaign, half to the exploiter, and that's your county, that's what we've been doing for three months. That's a fact. As long as something's been transferred to the county, those who exploit the coffees will be the Uncle of the Lady. Former Commissioner Lovreca, Katic, who has a huge company and which is well connected to his infrastructure, both county and state ties, these exploitation fields destroy and end cultural well-being, noise, noise and, of course, those mines that are banned. So when I look at that environment from where I come from, where and the very important drinking springs of our water, where, we have, we absolutely do the opposite and so we have mass... By the miner, 100 meters from the miner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as a child, I know what the problems of the miners are, which are mining, these exploitation fields are ultimately not being solved, which is the obligation of whoever exploits, but rather being wild dumps or industrial waste or other, these are bloody wounds in our area, mainly where the karst areas are, where the wealth of water is. So now, of course people are opposed,... on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Glavica near Sinj, where they want to declare the national nature park, which we are for, Dinara, and we have exploitation fields next to the source of Cetina's drinking water source Cetina, the richest spring and purest, drinking water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] More of that spring casts out water, in one day, in one hour than all the springs in Israel that are completely watered. Have a nice day. So we're talking noise here, we're talking, it's all connected and these particles, just so it doesn't banalize this noise, it's very important in that. It's not enough just to make a map of the noise, so let's make it. It's a question of what's going on in the field. Because it's so much, this infrastructure, this octopus connected that all of these acts that we bring, no, seriously, we can freely crush them. Everyone. We're out of control. I'm in the Parliament, so five years. Every morning, the EU directive, then at the end of the term of office, says the President of the Parliament, we passed 800 laws, each of them copied, copied, copied, what is in force, what is in implementation? There are people, whether there are material and technical means, and especially in terms of environmental protection. What's up with that? ... copy that in the end he boasts how much we have passed the law here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It just made a spear, copied this one, and it gave us this one. So, what you've taken on, the government of the Republic of Croatia, not just the Ministry of Health, because we currently have the Ministry of Economy and Economy, and I'm sorry, and the environment. It's fire and water. Fire and water don't go together. The water's shutting down the fire. They combined incompatiblely just to make these anomalies happen with the environment, in the interest of, above all, of course we're trying to live and work, but first, in the interest of capital, no individual. We don't come in law for a man, always for capital. Not for an individual to survive in that area, to live in that area, to survive sustainable development, but rather, on the contrary, here's an example this morning. So the kids schooled in my Cetitian province, transporting buses over 40 years old. He smokes like a blue river when there was a train 100 years ago. The buses, the fuel leaks, this morning the police stopped that car, on my initiative, I asked for it because it's often the buses, it's noise, shit, so nobody absolutely protected our kids from the older buses. Or an example of the noise in the old trucks carrying from Vrgorec to Sinj from the same municipal dump, with the same conditions 120 km transports waste to a dump in Sinj along the river Cetina and here we are talking about a law on the protection of, uh, the declaration of the nature park Dinara. Well, yes, I'm the first to declare nature park, the nature of Dinara, but how much noise there will be in that dump. We got a piece at Knin's, a shooting range in that park, a military shooting range, and we got another one. We have a concession that we gave the Hungarians to drill Dinara. Will there be noise from drilling in that nature park? Will that affect our groundwaters? So we haven't defined, we only work in the interest of individuals, small groups of capital, to the detriment of our people, and because of that, in these areas we have 100,000 people since the founding of the county, just from Krka to Neretva. I will not speak for Lika, too, Gorski Kotar, also, all potentials and resources are exclusively and only put into individual profits and interests of individuals. No residents of that region, any cattlemen, any tourist workers, any man who lives there and wants to survive in that area. And that's visible from all indicators, even based on these laws that we regularly prescribe from the EU, and they are not implemented. Your laws don't apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5143	We're moving on to individual debates. It's Mr. Ivan Celic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. According to estimates, nearly 80 million Europeans live in areas where noise exceeds the recommended value level, almost 10% of Europe's total population. The noise is, according to law, every unwanted sound that multiplely threatens human health and hearing. When we talk about sensitivity to futures and damages, as a result of noise, the first association of hearing damage, but it is not only about the organic system, so noise also affects the development of cardiovascular diseases, it also affects the development of certain mental problems, for example, the threshold above which the higher risk of myocardial infarction is 60 decibels, and the threshold that promotes aggressive behaviour, especially in people who already have diagnosed some mental disorders, above 80 decibels. Part of the EU's policy is to achieve a high level of health and environmental protection, and one of the objectives that needs to be pursued is to protect against noise. The EU Commission has dealt with noise noise in the Green Paper on future noise protection, as one of the biggest environmental problems in the EU. In 1997, the EU Parliament also called for specific measures and initiatives to be identified by the Environmental Noise Reduction Directive and noted the lack of reliable and comparable data on the state of various sources of noise. It was therefore necessary to develop short-, medium- and long-term measures to reduce noise produced by the largest sources of particularly road and rail vehicles, infrastructures, aircraft, external and industrial equipment and mobile machinery. Two common indicators have been selected. Noise indicator day, night, night to assess the disturbance and night noise indicator that assesses sleep disturbance. The purpose of the Directive on the assessment and management of noise from the environment is to define a common approach aimed primarily at avoiding, preventing or reducing the priorities of adverse effects including disturbances due to exposure to noise from the environment. To that end, the following measures are gradually implemented. Determination of exposure to noise from the environment by making noise maps, ensuring that data is made available to the public and that action plans are drawn up. As important as this Noise Protection Act is, I will set a concrete example. The city of Zagreb has made a strategic map of noise for the third round reporting to the European Commission, which contains the strategic map of road traffic noise, the strategic map of rail noise and the strategic map of noise of industrial plants and plants. The results of the dubious analysis of population exposure carried out under the strategic map of the City of Zagreb noise show that for a total period of days, dinner and night 26.7% of the population are exposed to excessive levels of road traffic noise, 2.9% of rail traffic and only 0.05% of the excessive noise levels of industrial plants and plants. These are data that coordinate with data from other European cities of approximately the same size, but they point to the importance of continuous planning and sustainable traffic management, regulation of spatial-planned noise management measures and consideration of technical noise protection solutions at the source of noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5145	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5146	... My colleagues, as noise protection is an important factor in improving the quality of life of every man, I think it is necessary to pay particular attention to the adoption of legal frameworks that define obligations and responsibility for implementing noise protection measures. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Although this proposal for a Law and amendments to the Noise Protection Act is mainly envisaged as a compliance with EU legislation, I would like to propose technical changes in order to implement this law more easily and faster. As regards Article 10, it would propose to amend the power to decide on the early possibility of increasing the allowed level of noise to meet the need to hold public meetings and organise entertainment, entertainment and sports events in an open or closed space for the population and guests with the authority of the representative body to the authority of the local self-government unit chief or mayor. Furthermore, Article 17 states that health inspectors of the State Inspectorate are authorised to temporarily restrict or temporarily prohibit the exercise of certain activities to a legal person or a natural person by a reasoned oral decision for a maximum period of 15 days, which I consider to be excessive in terms of the duration of the prohibition or restriction of the exercise of activity. I suggest that the deadline be reduced until the source of noise has been removed or up to 3 days at most. It would also take this opportunity to suggest a minister who would adopt regulations and guidelines related to this law to provide for measures for an angio-civilised level of noise in space, rather than measured noise, because noise levels are a dynamic category which is as visible in practice as they are visible in practice over time. In this respect, the solutions made by cities with implemented smart city systems where systemic solutions are significantly reduced noise levels in their areas should be reflected. And lastly, I have to say that I would agree with my colleague Tomasevic, who said that according to Article 10, municipal directors are treating some complaints, and since I come from a resort that is just an organizer, it is a tourist community, an organizer of various events and events, I have to say that we also had cases where the State Inspectorate, how you yourself listed at night or in late hours does not go out on the ground, and then the only option is, in fact, those communal directors who can certainly not measure the level of noise and all of this remains on some kind of oral arrangements, and I certainly believe that this is not a solution and that it should be working on improvement, and therefore respect the complaints of citizens, because there is indeed a problem with events and other events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5147	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5148	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Secretary of State Dulibic and his co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, the noise is a growing problem of today's day because people are exposed to both work and living environments. Many studies have explored the impact of noise on human health, and the results have shown without, exposure to noise can lead to a really serious disorder and physical and mental health. The noise on a person can also work directly and indirectly but it is not important whether it is direct or indirect, but it causes fatigue, reduction of the ability to work, sleep disorders, hearing problems to dizziness, problems of the nervous and blood vessel system from which a great killer of people should be stressed, which is high blood pressure. Problems of gastrointestinal and hormonal composition up to the most severe endocrinological disorders, and boa and metabolic diseases such as one of the most significant diabetes mellitus or diabetes mellitus. Noise cannot be avoided or eliminated, but there are instruments that can be tempered and controlled, which are primarily noise monitoring, noise research and education as necessary in order to manage the noise of the environment more effectively and knowingly, continuously inform the public about the harmfulness of exposure to excessive noise levels and refer to health risks due to excessive exposure. The unique tool that enables a credible population exposure assessment of various sources of noise are maps of noise, which were already here. However, there is a great need for cards of noise for them because it is a continuous information of harmfulness and raising awareness of the importance of prevention and protection against noise. Prevention is something that a lot to talk about because often we can help to reduce the noisy environment by our own actions. During the previous period, the law in question has been amended through amendments and additions four times and, inter alia, because of compliance with EU noise protection rules, but also because of the implementation of the reform measures under the National Reform Programme for 2018, which has shown Croatia its awareness of noise. These proposed amendments and amendments to the law aim at harmonising legislation, but the aim of the Regulation is to modernise the management of IT tools within its scope through: simplified reporting in order to reduce administrative burdens, improve the database for future evaluations and increase transparency in favour of public interest, which I consider to be a strong contribution. Member States, thereby and the Republic of Croatia, are required to ensure a higher level of transparency which will require that information be made available in an easily accessible manner by electronic means and in accordance with Directives, in particular as regards public access to services and sharing of data. The amendments and additions to this proposed legislation are in line and it is important to mention this new concept that arises, the data repository, since it is actually a new information system to be managed by the European Environment Agency, which contains information and information on noise from the environment that is made available through the national reporting and data exchange bodies. The availability of data in electronic form has been facilitated and access to legislation by individual Member States has been facilitated. Finally, I believe that these amendments and amendments to the laws are necessary and necessary, not only in order to comply with EU binding legislation or the implementation of the EU Parliament and Council Regulation of 5 June 2019, but also in particular to highlight the importance of harmonisation, given that there is great attention in the EU to the impact of noise on the overall health of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5149	Thank you, too. You've got replicas. Mrs. Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5150	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Here I would like to express my satisfaction with this individual debate. Of course, as a longtime doctor, the MP has chosen an approach in which she will especially highlight the importance of noise protection or the harmfulness of noise by general health with an emphasis on mental health and I think that through her debate she has really answered the question that the representative Celić initially asked the secretary of state how this law belongs to the health system and this tendency of this law is also on the education of the population and prevention and certainly this record which is important to us for the implementation of measures and evaluations. Thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5151	Does he want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5152	Thank you. It was precisely a tendency to show why it was so health-related. Health comes first and that's how we need to stay, and noise is the indicator that has a strong impact on our health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5153	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujević. I would like to commend your debate in which you point out that it is a priority to protect the public interest and protect the health of citizens. However, there is illogicality when it comes to protecting against noise, namely, a number of other laws regulate noise especially with us in Dalmatia at the proposal of the Council of the Tourist Community cities and municipalities can prohibit construction works in the summer months from making noise, and this is the most common work of July, August, and September and June, which means that over three months construction workers cannot perform construction works in these places. At the same time the glares are registered as nightclubs and nightclubs and produce far more noise that is harmful not only to citizens but also to guests who live in the summer months, so here I would like to ask you to consider how to regulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5155	Thank you very much. Here's your answer if you like. No, good. You have another replica, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5156	Thank you very much. In your debate somewhere near the end, you mentioned something that is extremely important, which is the availability, transparency of all data. So not only the availability, transparency of all data when it comes to Croatia, but also the other EU members. So what's important is that the data, that all the research that we have to deliver all the maps and strategic noises, is available to everyone because simply and during this unfortunate epidemic of Coronal or COVID 19, it was seen that data exchange is extremely important. That is why we, in our legislation, should not only insist on data exchange but also have to be in real life and really really see for the simple reason that you can compare yourself with others and that you can make some kind of step when it comes to Croatia itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5157	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5158	Thank you, ma'am. MPs, I agree fully with you, and it is precisely important that through European law transparency is particularly highlighted and that these data must indeed be public and transparent, for this very reason, as you yourself have said, that we may compare what is unusually important, especially if in scientific approach we approach both in everyday life and in noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5159	Thank you, too, thank you. No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is well aware that every medal has its own face and face, here from a respected colleague we have just heard the problem during the tourist season, of course, there is noise, interference not only by tourists but also by residents of the town not only along the Dalmatian coast of course but everywhere, but at this point I am asked here by the host to be heard through me and their voice. Now, they address this way and say one of the branches of our economy that has suffered the greatest damage from this crown of crisis and is hospitality, the crisis in the welcome anyway under the constant pasture of various inspectors marked as one of the biggest frauds in the Croatian state, even though even the biggest one of those bloated figures, let's say so, the imagined secret giving of the state by the innkeepers does not reach even 1/10 of some serious political affairs here in our country, after the famous lockdown declared due to 10 people a day and today, according to the official report, we have 3041 and we all agree that it is perfectly normal, the caterers are still slightly rising from the dust in which they are thrown. Already existing Noise Protection Act, as well as its new amendments and additions, could cause them even greater concerns, so I ask you once again to listen and understand them. They highlight the need to raise the limits currently prescribed the highest equivalent level of performance of music of 65 dB in closed space, defined art. 14. The rules on maximum permitted noise levels in the environment in which people work and stay and as an extremely important and need to reduce fines and are currently prescribed at amounts of 50 to 100 000 kn. 19. The law on noise protection and pray that due to the permitted extremely low maximum level of music performance, which is 65 dB which is sometimes exceeded by the conversation of guests at the catering facility and then, of course, our hosts are exposed to frequent applications, competent services, whether they are municipal directors, whether it is the sanitary inspector of the State Inspectorate who comes out on the ground and sometimes, of course, abuses of their legal authority, or bring the product, penalties on the spot without any established standards, take it almost, we can say a racket in the style of mob bosses. As a country relying mainly on tourism in filling the state budget, Croatia should also mitigate measures in EU offices, fight for increased tolerance both through the legal framework and through the activity of inspection and surveillance services on the ground, especially during the tourist season. We also fully understand people who live in close proximity to catering facilities, we agree with these claims that noise is extremely uncomfortable and that it affects the quality of sleep and therefore also reduces their work capacity and can cause natural and mental difficulties, but here we believe that, with a little more tolerance and mutual respect, a common framework can be found and that in some way people who live here and people who come to visit us during the tourist season or, of course, in the rest of the year can also be given joint work and co-existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5161	Thank you, too. You have, and I'm sorry, Mr. Dretar, you have two replicas, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5162	Thank you very much. It is good to hear this side too, so we all who have discussed the problem of noise have discussed from the aspect of the people who live, who have a problem, it is good that you have decided to hear the other side of the debate, so those who, under quotes, want to say, "in their work produce that noise". And it's not all the same. So, there's absolutely a difference if you're on the ground floor of a multi-state facility regardless of whether it's a residential-business, the difference is whether it's a catering facility, one environment of other residential facilities, or whether it's a catering facility located somewhere where public facilities and everything else are. And that's what I need, what I've discussed in the debate on behalf of the club, it's basic, you have to define through spatial planning. Once someone got permission, he proved something else with his permission and the subject was to conduct an inspection, so it's good to hear all the sides because when you hear all the sides, Then you can make some right decisions. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time, sorry.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5164	Dear Representatives Mrak Taritaš, thank you for your kind words and of course we will continue to protect the interests of both sides of Croatian society because ultimately we are here, and you will hear the final position of the Home Movement Club in a few minutes, there I will also talk about spatial plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5165	One more, ma'am. Yurichev, don't run away so fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5166	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Dretar, I agree with your discussion or with the requirements of the caterers because indeed 65 dB, we can measure on all smartphones, probably now our conversation in a smaller space would be so much because we have most of the caterers working in accordance with legal regulations and in each place we have one, two possibly three infringers who are in violation, and because of them, the legislator probably goes to this decision to limit the number of decibels, and the big problem is that even after leaving that catering facility the conversation is noisy, the most often noisy conversation under the influence of alcohol of many guests that create a mess all over the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5167	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5168	I'm completely in agreement, but, well, it happens, it breaks and sometimes happens with me in Zagorje that guys get a little loose, but that's why the communal directors and departments are here, let them do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5169	You're free now, thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5170	Thank you very much. When we talk about noise, I said on behalf of the club what I had to say is that noise is very, very much what it means, somewhere it's considered even the second level harmful to health. In Croatia, laws are passed, I said, regulations are prescribed, EU directives that are dead letter on paper, no one respects them, and even favors them from, say, electromagnetic radiation, that's the last time I spoke in a past session, and now I've given a law that affects people's health, noise, electromagnetic radiation, setting up base stations where they think of it. But when we talk here about noise and hospitality is mentioned, the crown crisis has only exposed all the bad policies to the caterers. I think that it would tribal the helpers first of all financial food people, mainly who invest in tourism and tourism activities not known that they will pay their people, the tribal would consider moratorium for a year on loans and interest people, is it not their fault that they can't do what they didn't do and what they didn't have a period that they didn't do, but this Croatian government is obviously with banks, doing more in the interest of the banks than in the interests of our hosts and other people and workers who have damages from the crown crisis. The bigger problem for the caterers is the unequal criteria in the national headquarters for, here and a colleague was a while ago representing, unequal criteria of behaviour. Let's say, now in the tourist season, she says, you keep the space, the kids, the caterers, don't, don't be careful, you have to have disinfectants, watch out for noise, watch out for all the tributes, but let's say Minister Beros, you can hug with our famous singer and post it on facebook as normal. Our prime minister can, so our prime minister can also have no problems with this handle, touch Mr. Djokovic's tennis player who is infected, he does not go into isolation, but what the photographer, who took the pictures, he goes into isolation is probably more likely to take photos than before. Our farmers simply couldn't get in, in, literally if he was in self-insulation he shouldn't rot, throw a rot on his own, on his own ice. So we have, here's our parliamentary representative, these are bad messages to the caterers, to the people. So this corona crisis, all that we bring here, has shown that we have one headquarters that has no legal basis, make fun of all people. So this is a mockery. Parliament representative Dario Hrebak was the 76th hand for the majority, democracy it was the majority, was in self-insulation and the man from the headquarters prescribed him, Capak seems to me to write to him that, that he could come, regardless of what his doctor said he couldn't be in the assembly and it affected people in tourism, it affected our citizens, it affected everyone. And then in the end, we find Boca guilty and the worst thing is we call the young to blame. It's not the young people's fault, it's not the guilty ones. We're asking young people to be amongst themselves. What's it gonna be like when Beroš paints with our singers in kissing ham, in his arms, and he publishes it on his facebook. It's gonna be all two of them. That's gonna be the clock. It's gonna be that clock. It's not the radio virus, and that's the problem with the caterer. Now just for a little while again here this minute is back on the subject of what's the original theme. The original theme of noise as a huge problem and all the laws and all the laws, five legal changes and in the last term we brought before the end of the mandate. In fact, it doesn't apply to, in, in the field. This is not applicable. I've listed the problems of urban environments. In urban areas, this does not apply. The biggest problem is traffic. We know. But many cities in the EU are working so that people can rest from that noise. Well, just so 100 million people is 20% in the EU having a problem with the noise of health, heart problems, even deaths increased. So we have to work to keep noise down, and people can live and work. However, with such a policy being imposed in the Republic of Croatia and we who degrade the Assembly, I am proud that my club MOST did not give this everything, voted against transferring all powers to a national headquarters that is now manipulating and making people unequal to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5171	Stay, please. Mr. Bull, don't make any noise, you've got two injuries to your Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Bull. Bedekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5172	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Vice President HS. I think he's hurt. 238. Rules of Procedure, No. 1 where an esteemed colleague, in part of his individual debate, spoke about a subject that is not subject to discussion, is the subject of today's law. I also believe that Article 5 of the same article was injured where, in certain parts of its individual debate, he insulted MPs and those representatives who are not present today at this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5173	You have another injury, what do we do all together or how? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5174	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, just like my colleague said, so he's hurt. 238th century 1st indent 1, so the representative during the hearing spoke for a full 4 minutes in fact about everything just not what was on the agenda. I don't think the minute that's left is excavating the injury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5175	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, too, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5176	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure have been injured both by a colleague and by a colleague of 238, or here I am asking you to write us what we are going to say and ask with regard to the National Civil Protection Staff of Mr. Capak, Berosh to write to us how we are going to speak to the MPs, but we must not allow... this Parliament to withdraw this violation of the Rules of Procedure or to write to us what the National Civil Protection Staff writes about what we MPs are going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5177	Thank you very much. I don't think we overstepped, and as far as I can tell, Mr. Bully was talking about noise, so it's best if we move on. You have a replica of Mrs. Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5178	Dear fellow Bull. I'm new to the Parliament so you'll forgive me, I didn't realize what your discussion has to do with mentioning ministers, mentioning people who are artists, and regarding noise, so maybe in time I'll figure out how this debate of yours went. And second of all, I'd just like to say that I don't like to have a flat-rate opinion about someone's work without arguments. Behind all these people you mentioned is very good quality work, a long range of education, a long series of implementations for college books, which is not easy. They are experts all to acknowledge in the world and as such they should respect their arguments, and in all other things they can, of course, be always free to speak. Well, that was my replica on yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5179	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5180	Thank you very much. I would now just say for a moment, if you can scientifically justify believing in their expertise, their school in their everything they have behind them, how can you explain that a farmer can't fertilize the vineyard and the one who's been fertilizing it, and there was no one around him, and he was in isolation paying 8,000 kuna fines? How can you explain that Mr. Hrebak's parliamentary representative comes here from self-insulation and votes among parliamentary deputies is part of the majority while our youngsters are called to step away from each other, to adhere to the measures that the headquarters has called? How can you explain that you hug with singers and this picture of Minister Beros, is this the same noise in the health department, that Minister Beros hugs, and at the same time you invite young people in disks, nightclubs to be two meters away from each other? Well it's embarrassing, it's with a healthy logic not entering into their quality... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5181	Time,... I'm not giving a warning because you really talked a little bit about noise, but you spoke loudly about it. Here you go. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... No more replicas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5182	I don't. I'm sorry you're nervous, Vice President, and what you're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5183	No more replicas, no more. Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Ante Prankin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5184	Dear Mr. Vice President, the chairman of the 2nd summons... (Speakers speaking at the same time.) with special pleasure. So, communal noise, traffic noise, industrial noise, but it's all about the noise produced by the catering facilities, the catering sites, and I don't think there's any new Household and Tourist Act called that food and tourist activity law, I don't think there's any of it. And it's a shame that there's no one here from the hospitality ministry because we primarily have to law on noise protection because we primarily have to law on noise protection whatever it is that we have to protect him from the other laws that were passed in this House first. I'll take the opportunity to continue what I didn't have time for. Two laws passed in this House of Law on the Protection of Noise and the Law on Attending and Tourist Activity are totally contrary to each other and the problem further, the Constitutional Court is not competent to address the problem. Let's go consult the lawyers. Is the Supreme Court? Neither is the Supreme Court. Is it the County Court? It's not county or municipal. Is it commercial? Even though the commercial is not in charge of commercial law, they are trading more, but they will come in turn when the time comes. So, then, just this one more sentence and let's go. I hereby initiate a debate on the completion of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law by adopting a precise provision on the procedure in such a case as the one in which the two laws are contrary to each other. A colleague... well, it's a shame, two laws passed, can happen to be the opposite of each other, but we don't have the instrument to fix it. Thank you very much. Any replicas?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5185	You don't have a replica. Now we move to closing words, first Mr. Davor Dretar's Department of State Movement Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5186	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The House of Homeland Movement MPs' club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Noise Protection Act, in principle we consider it to be adjustments to EU legislation and, possibly, to some small provisions that will not entirely or almost affect the very quality of the law. However, I would like to speak a little bit for a moment and beyond the laws of noise because, of course, in order to preserve the environment, we have a series of laws that speak about all possible facilities, installations of buildings or companies that can potentially pollute and air, soil, water, or sea, and, of course, these laws speak of their permits to start their activities or regulate the continuation of their activity in order to reduce environmental pollution. Well, apart from the protection from noise, it is extremely important to note that we are in a country where we have serious problems with our environment, and they are caused by the violent actions of capital, most often we need to take a good look at ourselves, especially those who are in power, so they can change that with the protection of parties that have been in power so far. The whole of Croatia is full of wild garbage dumps not to talk about that beautiful barbaric case that's still under trial, and we all look forward to what's going to happen there. We all know about fake or non-existent concessions for extracting sand, gravel or stone which are then installed as building material in Croatian state projects and paid by taxpayers' money. In my beautiful Zagorje they steal and cut forests that are state-owned and nothing but those who are well informed and know where that tree ends. And therefore, all these investigations have been groping in place for years, not to mention frequent cases of wastewater spilling into Croatian water streams from large or small complexes, of course, under the protection of great powers. As far as the amendments to the laws themselves are concerned, they are mostly referred to as adaptations related to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. Environmental authorisation solutions are mentioned, data depositories are introduced, which would be the central information system. But on this point it is quite simple to talk on the ground completely unclear and no one can explain why our Brussels administrators should know how much noise Split Airport produces or how loudly it was played at the Golden Wire Festival of Slavonia. I'm sure they don't care as much as we don't care about the intensity of noise in tulip fields in the Netherlands or anything. So, I'd like to mention another case that the media reported a year and a half ago, it's about the backdrop of Omis and one little windman not as popular as this one is today, but there's an inspection during surveillance that found as much as 16 times the noise of the level before the wind power plant is released, and you're not going to believe that the wind farm is working neatly, and there's still no useful permit. I would mention, of course, also here several times highlighted action plans, strategic noise maps that make up a professional basis for making spatial plans, and we know that spatial plans are also one of the very, very, very nice skills that certain representatives have, some of them are no longer here with us, some are not ministers anymore, let alone administration ministers. We saw cases when they were very creatively ending and bringing new business plans, and then some barren country, a meadow bought offshore companies from the Caribbean state, and you're not going to believe anything again. With these changes to the law, the competent ministry is handing over its powers to the Sanitary Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate, so we want Mr Andrija Mikulić, the chief state inspector, to make, in contrast to his predecessors, something real in this field, rather than just treading on the weak and powerless, and on the other hand, caressing similarly and reputable. We saw for ourselves when the grandmother who sells cheese on the Lika Highway was charged a fine, and some of the great offenders had nothing to do with it. But that would be pretty much all of it, I would remind just all of us that the Environmental Protection Act as well as a series of these legal regulations implies between ourselves and our responsible behaviour, I first set foot in the Croatian Parliament on 22 July of this year for the first time in my life and I have to say the unpleasantly surprised amount of paper we use here, which is constantly printed on 100-thousand printers in this building, we have expensive ladies and gentlemen of extremely light and simple mobile devices, I welcome and the efforts of the Croatian Parliament to make a positive example of the paperwork that we spend, but I appeal to it once again seriously, seriously take it seriously and try to give this Croatia's leading us at least my positive example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5187	Thank you very much for your accuracy, and in the end, even in front of the Most Independent Lists, they will talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection against the Noise of Mr Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5188	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I'll start with this, with this sentence. You're talking about noise, noise law, we've been discussing, but for the past 20 years there's been silence where there's supposed to be noise, and where there should be silence there's noise. So I'll say, when we discuss this law once again, we as Croatian parliamentarians, as parliamentarians over whom God is no directive, nothing, but if we implement the EU Directive, if we are already obeyers there, but if we vote we parliamentary deputies and if we discuss directives and regulations, although we vote, we would not vote on it, they would get rid of it, then at least let us apply it. We don't apply that. We don't apply. The noise is a huge problem, a huge problem. There is very little talk about noise in the Republic of Croatia if 20% of the EU is similar in Croatia as regards the noise of people who have health problems with certain health damage. That's the problem. Just like the dust that comes into existence, just like, why, so I repeat, because we're not taking care of the environment for us is only an exploitation field not for sustainable development and smart management to survive people in the areas where it's exploited, I repeat, I came from the area I was born by the miner and I know what a miner is and what an exploitation is and what people are suffering there and what turns out from these mines where huge noise is created. We've been banned from re-mining today, mined by explosives from the fields of exploitation, it's done in the night secretly, but there are structures connected to, say, the Dalmatian Zagora with the relatives of Lovreća's former mayor, the mayors, the mayors, the godfathers of the parties, mostly down this area of HDZ di predominates, is it? And that's how it works. We're talking noise here, and we're aware it's not going to work out. And that's why... two-thirds of Croatia, so there is no noise in the hearths, there is no children's noise in schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only in my Cetina province 2 classes less this year. A lot less noise where it should be. I started this debate with this, where the triba is heard voice, noise, crying, in maternity homes, it's not heard, but it's heard in bus stations, where parents send their dicks, there's a cry. For what? Because I just spoke. We don't all have the same criteria, here's the headquarters where you've been, the distinguished MPs, the headquarters doesn't have the same criteria. They can hug each other on the beach, they can take pictures on Facebook, Instagram, all those networks, and young people, don't, you're... Watch out for 30 to 35 years and that's the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a key problem. The problem is you're sending two messages. We can, you can't. A parliamentary representative in self-insulation can come to the vote, and these can't. And that's why there's no noise where it's supposed to be, in kindergartens, schools, maternity homes, there's no noise in my Dalmatian burn. Since these structures that exploit and drill and noise have been running, the structures since they rule in the counties, only from Krka to Neretva, in Dalmatia there are 100,000 people less. That noise, and it's no longer in maternity homes, no. Very little, not even in schools, less first class, mostly in Slavonia, my Zagora, the Gorski kotar, the Face, there's no noise where it should be. Quiet. You made silence where there was supposed to be noise, and where there was supposed to be silence, you make noise exclusively in the interest of the capital of individuals, and there is no survival of men and men in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5189	And we've come to the end of the debate that I'm closing. We'll vote when the conditions are met. and we move on to: - Proposal for a Law on posting of workers in the Republic of Croatia and cross-border implementation of the fine, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 15.; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 15. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, Mrs. Majda Buric. Will you have an opening statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5192	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs in HS. Therefore, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Posting Workers in the Republic of Croatia and a cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions introducing a comprehensive legal framework governing the order of the Republic of Croatia to take over the EU directive, which is a framework for the pay and working conditions of the addressed workers. The aim of this law is to protect labour rights and working conditions for posted workers and to increase legal certainty. Therefore, the Directives I have mentioned will be further clarified by Directive 2018/257 of 28 June 2018, followed by Directive 96/71/EC of 16 December 1996 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and Directive 2014/67/EU of 15 May 2014. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that the proposal for this law regulates the following basic issues. The person referred to is guaranteed the right and the amount of compensation for the work carried out, replacing the current way of determining the compensation as the guaranteed minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, as host countries, with the exception of workers in road transport activities, who continue to be entitled to the minimum wage and until the amended sectoral Directive 2006/22/EC is adopted. It also extends the list of rights of posted workers to the Republic of Croatia with 2 additional rights, relating to the quality of accommodation and mobility, i.e. the costs of internal mobility of workers. Also, with the exception of workers in road transport activities, until the sectoral directive mentioned earlier is adopted. A rule on long-term posting of workers is also introduced and a new and higher level of protection for long-term posted workers is prescribed, but also the possibility for the employer to inform of the need to extend the reference period. The proposed law also regulates the working conditions of posted agency workers and defines more clearly equal treatment with regard to domestic agency workers such as the application of the same rules, salaries and other working conditions. In addition, the proposed law regulates the possibility of cooperation with other EU Member States, as well as with the European Commission and other EU bodies, and in particular the European Labour Supervisory Authority, a newly established European Labour Agency. Conditions for more effective sanctioning, abuse and avoidance of the application of rules and regulations in the field of posting of workers are also allowed. As regards the financial resources themselves, there is no need to provide any financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this law, and the plan is that the law itself enters into force 1.1.2021, as you can see, the law goes into regular procedure, so in 2 readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5193	Thank you, too. You have replicas. The first one was, Mr. Bull's first one was.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5194	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, this law is being resolved, so people who come across the agency work in the Republic of Croatia from other countries. However, the fact that we have so liberalised now in Croatia the arrival of a foreign labour party because we literally destroyed the worker working, rules all laws against people and workers in the interest of only capital. So this directive, I will repeat again, what we prescribe from the EU, what we prescribe, I don't even know the meaning of it, it's going to be implemented, no matter what it is until 2021, which is why it's not valid from this month, here's an explanation, is it really the EU directive that overlooked our date when we as Croatia will obediently do it? I repeat, all the laws that were passed in Croatia were adopted in the interest of individuals' capital against workers and in Croatia there are literally no more workers, no more strike fair, which is legislation a device and a means of making capital possible [[Intruder: Thank you]] to the harm of the workers, which is why it is empty [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5195	Here you go, Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5196	Thank you. So, I have the need, in particular, to point out that this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has certainly protected both workers and employers, especially at this time of the crisis, so I will remind you that only one day after the earthquake in Zagreb we have already implemented the implemented measures for the preservation of jobs, so we have begun to pay 4000 kuna and 3250 kuna respectively + contributions for people who should have kept their jobs, as well as employers, so far we have provided funds of more than 9 billion kuna, aided 600, nearly 600,000 workers and 100 000 employers, and measures to preserve jobs and related measures continue as you know by 31 December of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5197	Thank you, thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5198	Thank you. First, to comment that it is amazing for me to mention these measures of the government and to misstate that the funds were paid to persons or workers while the funds were paid to employers, and therefore we had a situation that the bookies that had several hundred thousand, several hundred million received annually received assistance in the crown crisis. But my question is concrete. What is the projection of this law? As far as I can see, no projections have been made which will result from the implementation of this, the review of the European law, and do you have any projections, how many workers will be from European countries addressed to Croatia and to which these measures will be applied, because, I say, the measure in which the worker is paid under a collective contract where we no longer have it in many trades for workers? And is it a word in Romanian workers, Bulgarian workers, meaning workers from which country and how much... ? [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5199	Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5200	You got it. Thank you. So, first of all, Your Honor. Peovic, the first part of your question, of course, employers applied to measures to preserve jobs that were later channeled or should have been channeled to their workers, and there are instruments of control that are dealing with precisely whether the process happened. The second thing you asked me about this law, according to the state inspectorate data from January 1st, until July 31st this year, was received 1345 statements on the posting of workers. The mostly addressed workers in the Republic of Croatia are from Slovenia, 549 of them, Italy, No. 278, Austria 121 and SR Germany 87, and when it comes to third country reference, we see here that only 30 references from BiH [[Intruder: Thank you]] and 14 from the Republic of Serbia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5201	Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5202	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor's Secretary of State. The aim of this directive and the transposition of this directive into Croatian legislation is to protect workers and strengthen their rights. This is also essentially a package with the Foreign Law we discussed last week. Can you also explain once again to the opposition what the government has done to protect workers' rights, how much jobs are preserved in this crisis, what you intend with 10 billion kunas that the government has put into priority for investing in employment, see, for example today, 149 000 unemployed, today the CNB has also come out with statistics on growth and industry, employment in industry and buildings that have practically recovered in times of crisis, surely the government has had a huge impact there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5203	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5204	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian Pavic. So, I repeat, this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has very much protected both workers and employers, especially when we look at the last period of the crown crisis. All one day after the earthquake in Zagreb, we started paying the amount for the preservation of jobs, then it was 3,250 kuna plus contributions, then at 4 months then at 4,000 kuna per worker plus contributions. The application for this measure was submitted by the employer, of course. So far, we have paid more than nine billion kunas, including our contributions. It is also necessary to mention the measure of part-time, the measure for micro-entrepreneurs that are also in the help package for workers in the root crisis problem, and the measure of preserving jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5205	Excuse the weather. But you have another replica of Mr. Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5206	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. As far as I've come to understand here some quality perhaps one of the most important things about this law is that these are workers who come to another country, but they already have a working relationship in their country. So these aren't some people who are as unemployed as one of their colleagues thinks they have a job and come here to provide a service for a certain time. I wonder what it is, given that the property of this law is temporary, how long can it be, for instance, temporary?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5207	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5208	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent Karlic. So when we talk about posting workers, we talk about workers their employer points to in another country. Only reference is defined in a way that it lasts up to 12 months by prescribing and long-term reference that may take up to 18 months, which does not mean that this reference cannot last a month, two, three etc., but only a reference up to 12 months, and a long 18 months and that is what is explained in this bill on the home page somewhere in the first article if I remember well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5209	Thank you very much. No more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to the clubs. The first is Mr Davorko Vidovic, who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5210	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I can't start to say anything about this law, and before I say a few words about what we had heard in the previous point, even in the Croatian public and in the Croatian public space, the level of resistance that goes beyond anything that comes from the EU is very interesting and most often covered, I would say a rather demagogue rhetoric about these Brussels officials who impose something on us. By contrast, I personally think that the greatest benefit and benefit we as citizens of Croatia from EU membership is not as much money as it is being spoken of as just converting, approaching the legislation of the world's most successful countries within the EU. Europe has some 6.7% of the world's population, and total social transfers at global global level are 60% within Europe. So there is no part of the planet, there is no America, China, Japan to a greater extent to protect the social rights of citizens than is the case in Europe. I really come forward here as a Eurofil, if you will, so the one I look very confidently at is the ability to implement in our legislation, and I hope in our daily practice the best experience, the best countries in the world. It is also surprising when and in the case of such a law which is not the merit of this government as it would like to be shown, but the merits of all those citizens and those people in Croatian politics who have taken on to become part of the EU, this most prosperous and best part of the planet, it is because of all these people to implement a law that takes over in itself actually takes over a package of three directives that are passed in the field of labour rights of posted workers during the reference within the single market, only when it comes to issues of their protection. So, we're implementing something that we've been talking about for 15 years, 20 years through the directives, discussing and resulting, and I would say by fairly unisoning the adoption of those directives at EU level that if we adopt this law will become an integral part of our legal gain. Why is this important to keep in mind? When it comes to this particular law and resolving these issues, he, as we have heard from the State Secretary, is marginally referring to Croatia where there are not too many addressed workers from EU member states and he is largely regulating the issues that are interesting to us on the one hand, about 30,000 of our fellow citizens, the country's country's citizens working outside of Croatia in the countries of the European Economic Area, so it was mostly the EU, and there was at the time of the adoption of one of the directives, which has been implemented here, there were quite a number of I would say an attempt to see whether it was in the interest of Croatian employers or not because Croatia had forced itself in some way within these directives to provide its workers who are being provided with those rights which workers in those countries, therefore, the host countries. I don't think either of us should mind that if a Croatian worker works in Germany exercising at least minimum rights as compared to workers of other countries working there or Germany who, in this case, is a domicile, domicile country. With this bill I would say goes towards greater convergence of social and labour rights which I think is certainly desirable. Social and labour rights are the rights of so-called Third generation, these are certain rights, they are most often left to countries to subsidize these issues at their national level, but trying to convert them, to balance them as well as at the legislative level, but also as a practice is certainly something that is desirable and should be welcomed. It puts great obligations towards less developed members, we may have a problem in some things, but I think the argument, so we can't do it anyway, with us it doesn't work in practice etc. should not be used when speaking in this legislative body of this country as an argument that something that is good, which is positively not implemented. I am convinced that this directive at EU level provides a number of order, with this, this law also introduces very concrete measures to punish the different forms of abuse that there have been and which have been very large when it comes to posting workers. In my day as Minister of Labour, I have had incredible experiences actually with detectives, with trading, with selling people, exploiting people, etc., these are issues that are being absorbed at least at the level of what is desirable, at the level of the law of this law. I think this will provide more fair market competition, that the fact that this law excludes actually workers and road transport companies and agency workers should not be a big problem because they are regulated in a special way so that these two activities that are most abused, in which most I would say violations not only of the law but also of some norms of civilised or humane conduct when it comes to self-employed workers to regulate it in a different, special, special way. This law requires and a far greater level of information among the members that they are, therefore, mandatory now is no longer optional, they are required to cooperate, inform each other, exchange statistics, data on the number of these posted workers, and I hope that in this sense they will ensure greater control of this and in Croatia, but also in other EU members. The introduction of penalties, therefore, instead of recommendations, instead of one optional introduction of a obligator system, means that the law is fully respected. So, I think neither employers, those people who honestly, daily do their job, looking for markets, who participate in a fair and fair competition so that they can also support this way of editing this area so that all those who have abused or tried to abuse and abuse regulations on the posting of workers can be disabled. They are not evil we are for workers, they are evil and for all I say honest employers who do this in a legal, legal way. Here, it seems to me that we do not have too much choice even if we do not want this law to be ours, our European obligation, but I would say that it is in no way at all to the detriment of Croatian workers and it is certainly not to the harm of workers in Europe, and in that sense I think it is very good to implement this directive in our legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5211	It is now the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement in whose name Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5212	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, so it is clear to us that this legislative proposal is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. However, we consider it necessary to highlight certain shortcomings within this legislative proposal, which have not been offered a solution, as regards workers' rights to work in the Republic of Croatia. Businesses based in the EU can freely provide services in other Member States and send their workers to work for a certain time on the territory of another EU Member State or on the territory of the European Economic Area. Elimination of barriers to the free provision of services on the basis of fair competition while ensuring an adequate level of protection of workers' rights is a lasting objective for the EU. But will this safety for the worker really bring this law? So let's take the turn. This proposal lays down the right to compensation for the work carried out which is guaranteed to the posted worker or to a foreign agency worker and defines the concept of that fee. However, the question arises who will control the possible overtime of workers and their reckoning and payment, especially when we know that this is a common practice practiced by employers to the foreign level, and accordingly very likely also to the posted workers? Despite the fact that the provisions of this law allow the addressed worker to protect his rights against the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, even after the completion of the referral, and thus to access all proceedings before the competent court, before the state authorities, to legal persons with public authority or to initiate proceedings for the protection and exercise of the rights guaranteed by this law, including the possibility of the worker, with his consent, representing the union, the worker will most often remain deprived of this information because his barrier to our institutions is very often ignorant of the Croatian language and according to his rights. Who is in charge of checking qualifications of posted workers to work in the Republic of Croatia? There are frequent situations in which workers who have falsified beliefs about education are involved, in such situations it is possible to experience a greater number of accidents in the work taking into account the fact that the most common workers who refer to work in the Republic of Croatia are actually workers in the construction sector. Art. The 6th law draws closer to the regulated working conditions of the seconded worker, thus determining that the foreign employer is obliged independently to the right applicable to the working relationship of the seconded worker during the reference of the workers to the Republic of Croatia, so that it is obliged to apply the provisions of the rules of the Republic of Croatia, including the quality of the accommodation to the extent to which the right and the domestic worker is entitled, if the employer is required to provide accommodation to the domestic worker who is deriving from his usual place of work, according to the regulation or an extended collective contract. However, it raises the question of what exactly does this mean for the quality of the accommodation to which the domestic worker is entitled? Have we missed any closer to determining what are the minimum conditions for the accommodation of posted workers? We are familiar with the infrequent practice of an employer whose workers are deprived of their right to their own space of rest, a questionable available sanitary node, or, say, questionable hygiene of the area in which they reside. Unforgivable question, who will control the accommodation conditions in which such posted workers reside? Finally, the question is raised and whether we lack implementing mechanisms or some implementing body in order to truly meet the EU's permanent objective from the beginning of the story, which is to remove barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition, while ensuring an adequate level of protection of workers' rights regardless of which country the worker comes from. It is also interesting that no single commentator of this bill has appeared in the process of electronic consultation with the public, the legislator held this law to that Internet application, this bill opened for comments for exactly 15 days. I have to ask the question, is it possible for this e-consultation process to be kept open for, say, 30 days and thus contribute to the transparency of law-making but also to the social dialogue of stakeholders involved in the process of law-making? I will mention the practice of EU member states which, with their consultations with the interested public, are often able to hold open e-consultations for several months, I have even seen an example for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5213	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sandra Bencic, who will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5214	Thank you. Therefore, the implementation of this new directive amending the Directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services, the relations of amendments and new rules that will regulate the issue so far, of the actual negative competition of workers within the European Economic Area, and we can say in many ways that it contributes to the equalisation of the right of posted workers with regard to working conditions and the level of compensation. This will certainly result in a decrease in this negative spiral down with regard to labour prices. And while we welcome such a step that has first and foremost taken place on the initiative of those countries within the EU who have decided to protect the price of work of their workers and, of course, developed EU countries, we are concerned because on the other hand these mechanisms of protection do not apply to workers coming from countries outside the European economic area. As we had the opportunity to see last week, the Government proposed a proposal for a Law on Foreigners to deregulation the system by leaving the quota system without predicting the same mechanisms for protecting labour prices for both domestic and foreign workers coming from non-EU countries or from non-European economic areas. If we were to reflect the provisions of this law on the posting of workers in the Republic of Croatia to workers coming from non-European countries, then we would indeed have in a large part equal terms and price of work for all workers regardless of their origin and avoid the negative effects of the fall or stagnation of the labour price in those branches where we have a significant inflow of migrant workers from non-European countries. Problems related to workers from non-European countries, the majority concerns quality of accommodation, unreported and unpaid overtime, lack of the right to weekly holidays and days off, the inability to collect claims to the employer. I can say that we have reports in particular that workers from Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are in a de facto slave position because they are debtors to foreign intermediation agencies who financed their arrival in Croatia and have to pay them off and actually work to pay off that debt and are therefore not in a position to seek any rights against their employer. The problem is when workers stop working on any basis, and they haven't found a new employer because at the same time their ability to stay and have to leave, leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and leaving the territory should actually be financed by an employer. So, this law improves the status of posted workers from European countries, but the Law on Foreigners does not regulate these issues for non-European workers at the same time, and thus we are actually creating workers of the first and second order, which will ultimately affect the reduction of the rights of all workers due to a poor negotiating position and the possibility of actually achieving a reduction or stagnation of the labour price due to the imports of the worker. As a green-left block, we are committed to developing too much industrial policy and participating employment in its creation because in Croatia we do not have extra people, we have a lack of quality jobs, quality jobs and excessive industrial policies. And instead of seeking to control the movement of the right-wing people, we believe that we should not do this but rather strengthen and restore the power to work, restore the power to collective bargaining and create an equal framework of working conditions for all workers regardless of their origin, so as not to actually endanger the overall decline in labour prices for both domestic and foreign workers. As far as the bill itself is concerned, in terms of amendments, we have several objections. We believe that in art. 31. We need, where it is proposed that the solidarity of the contractor's obligations under the contractor as an employer should be extended according to his designated claimant on behalf of the successful and the outstanding fees for the work done should also be extended to contractual relations between the contractors and the contractors established under the Service Contracting Agreement and outside the construction activity. So you've seen that here it's limited to construction activities. Namely, the share of construction in A1 certificates issued pursuant to Article. 12. Regulations for cross-border service provision in Croatia are only 55%. So we still have to solve 45% of the other workers in that position. We also believe that there is a need to review the assumptions for the release of the responsibilities referred to in Article. 31st century 5, since it is evident that these are easy to satisfy and that this is, in fact, jeopardising the intensity of the implementation of the directive, and particularly in light of the revision of the directive on the posting of workers, because, for example, such conditions set there should be deleted for reasons that there are neither Slovenian nor Dutch nor German legislation, so no legislation has put those conditions in place which would actually allow employers to resolve the obligations of solidarity. We also suggest to be in art. 23. Proposals for a period during which the foreign employer is obliged to keep documents on reference from two to five years, so five years ago, are now reduced to two, probably wanted to go to the employers. However, on the other hand, that provision shall be kept until 5 g. It was that the limitation period for material claims was 5.g. In order to ensure access to evidence for workers, employers need to keep that document for 5 g. to be able to access it. For this reason, we believe that this solution should be maintained so that the material is kept until 5 g. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5215	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ante Kujundzic's turn to speak in front of the Network Representatives' Club, uh, the Independent List MOST, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5216	Here's your thanks, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies, respected secretary of state. The truth is, we need to pass one of these laws that will actually regulate questions from the very scale of what we're talking about today. However, what is not clear to me is that I have the impression that we are still somehow pressing certain legislative provisions not only in this area but in general in the Republic of Croatia, without protecting everything we originally needed to protect. Normally, what I'm about to mention is not about this law. However, I do not know for what reason but when we are chasing these European directives, for which reason we do not address socially existential issues, for example here are parents with, who have children with developmental difficulties, why they are not at the standard of EU countries and member states, not to talk about single parents. But in any case, I will actually return to the position that the Most Independent Lists and Parliamentary MPs will present in the context of this law. So, before us is the proposal for a law on the posting of workers to the Republic of Croatia and the cross-border implementation of a decision on fines. Sumingly speaking, this proposal is not bad and it is not bad, it defines more or less everything that is needed for workers who are addressed to any country, so here we are now talking about the Republic of Croatia and we are passing a law for it, both for the Republic of Croatia and for the Republic of Croatia. Several of the things behind which the questionnaire stands are, in fact, the very assessment of the situation at the very introduction states that the implementation of this law has a certain impact on the budget, more specifically on its revenue side, but we did not assess it. As the opening text of the proposal states, it is impossible to assess it, but the obligation to adopt it is quite clear. So, what I mean is, the revenue side of the budget or any planning, I guess it's clear to everyone that it's actually the most important part and we think, we should have some kind of impact assessment on that revenue side regardless of whether we're going to have some plus or minus in terms of the income itself, but I definitely believe that this assessment would serve us very much in terms of planning the budget for the years that are coming. Furthermore, the thing is that this law also defines the application of more favourable material rights for workers and it is clearly a very, very good thing that, for example, if the host country has more favourable rights than the country where the company itself is based, it is actually the rights that are favourable to the worker and it is definitely one of the things that is good and I would like here in fact if we in Croatia in our legislative frameworks actually always directed towards more favourable rights for workers. So, actually, before us is finally one of the laws that puts a worker and his rights first and I say it's a shame that we haven't really done the same before. When I say the same, I mean actually the well-being of citizens more specifically those who create this state. This bill is, in fact, in a close relationship, as you yourself have said with the proposal of the Foreign Law, and because of Article 20 of this Law, I am afraid that there is a real danger of importing labour from third countries which are or are actually workers whose employer is established in the EU or other of course the EEA Contracting States or the Swiss Confederation, which again poses a risk of lowering the labour price itself to the Republic of Croatia or of shutting down even certain activities that will be complemented by foreign corporations and workers of the same whether through the short or in the long term this reference. In addition, there is no clear definition and method of the employer's obligation to confirm and in what ways the legality of employment will be confirmed. But we are where we are and we are actually part of a European family where we wake us up real, nobody asks anything. Article 13 defines the degree of work of a foreign user to which we can get into a situation where the employment of the population of the Republic of Croatia can be avoided in domestic companies and the disposal of them because of the possibility of the already mentioned concession of foreigners who are likely to be a cheaper workforce by foreign entities and agencies themselves, which, of course, we do not think is good. In principle, looking at this proposal, it defines what is our obligation, among other things, as EU members, and thus the representatives of the Most Independent Lists will support it, but what we expect is what we expect to fully implement it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5217	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr Mladen Karlic to speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5218	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues before us is the Proposal for a Law on posting of workers to the Republic of Croatia and cross-border implementation of decisions on fines. Here's a law that comes to debate at the time of the great pandemic of the coronary virus, so the mobility of workers is certainly far less than it would have been if it hadn't been for this problem. However, the law must be passed because it is a law for the future of workers and ours, but of course all Europeans. As we could hear from the secretary of state in the first half of the year only 1150 of the workers who came from other countries here to Croatia in this temporary way. Freedom of provision of services, free movement of workers, freedom of business creation are fundamental principles of the internal market in the EU incorporated into the EU-wide functioning contract. EU companies can freely provide services in other Member States for the purpose of performing services to send their workers to work for a certain time on the territory of another EU Member State or European Economic Area that is somewhat wider, while removing barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition, while ensuring an adequate level of protection, workers' rights are the fundamental objective of the EU. Within the single EU market, the reference of workers to cross-border services is a specific form of cross-border mobility of workers that should differ from other forms of migration happening in that area. Mobiles differ according to their working status, employees and unemployed, self-employed, living and working facts and if they move to another country to integrate or return to their country of origin in the long term or permanently. The temporary nature is precisely the fundamental property of resting in the context of cross-border provision of services, and unlike the persons looking for a job here, the posted worker already has a working relationship with the employer in the country where he normally works and returns to it after the job has been done. Therefore, not all workers sent from employer to another country are addressed to workers. The difference can be determined by asking the following questions. Is it considered that workers according to the legislation of the State they are referred to, does the cross-border element mean that two countries are involved or are there one of the three reference situations and is the purpose of the work being provided? Is there a form where coming is not providing services but meetings, conferences, fairs, and then it's not about the posted worker. This draft law establishes a comprehensive legal framework which adopts, in one act, EU directives aimed at protecting workers' labour rights or working conditions during the reference to limited time in a country where the worker does not normally work, thus increasing his legal certainty. The European legal sources that are the framework for salaries and working conditions for posted workers by taking over, which are adopted by this law, are this latest EU Directive since 2018, and then the '96 Directive. which we have already had for 20 years in which, in some ways, the 2014 implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive in the context of amending the Regulation on administrative cooperation through the information system of the internal market, which has been adopted in one part of the applicable Foreign Law, and the other part of the Law on Cross-border implementation of the monetary penalty decisions already adopted. This bill of law.../incomprehensible/... places many issues in line, but perhaps the most important thing is to guarantee the right to compensation for the work carried out and to define compensation for the work carried out instead of the prescribed right of the posted worker to the guaranteed minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia as host country except for workers in road transport activities for which a specific sectoral directive will be worked. The list of rights to be guaranteed to the worker during temporary work in the Republic of Croatia with 2 additional rights is extended, i.e. the quality of accommodation and the cost of internal mobility of workers. A rule of long-term reference is introduced and a new and higher level of protection is prescribed to guarantee a long-term posted worker, but also the possibility of the employer to notify of the need to extend the reference period. More detailed arrangements shall be made for the working conditions of posted agency workers and shall be more clearly defined by equal treatment with regard to the domestic agency worker, the obligations of the foreign temporary employment agency shall be defined as the employer in the case where the worker is referred to the customer with its head office or operating in the Republic of Croatia. The obligation of a domestic user to whom the Agency has sent an agency worker to inform the foreign agency of the pay and other working conditions applicable to its employees shall be determined by the possibility of working with other EU Member States, the EU Commission and other EU bodies, in particular the European Supervisory Authority for the work of the newly established European Labour Agency. The obligation to ensure access to information on applicable working conditions, employers' obligations and other rules to be followed in the Republic of Croatia shall be established. Rules and procedures for mutual cooperation and assistance of bodies in the cross-border implementation of decisions on administrative fines shall be laid down, enabling conditions for more effective punishment of any abuse and circumvention of applicable rules in the field of posting of workers. This law ensures that new rules and mechanisms of protection and control are implemented primarily in order to achieve greater protection of the rights and positions of posted workers, as well as to ensure fairer conditions for a fair competition on the internal market, while at the same time harmonising the same area of movement, residence and work of foreigners with the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners which should enter into force in early 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5219	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic and so begins individual debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5220	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I will say that I am pleased to see again that, in this law as well as probably any law on work that will appear in this assembly, HDZ and SDP are perfectly in agreement, so at some point I was not sure whether my colleague Vidovic represented the HDZ bill, there was so much harmony in this presentation. What I would like to say is that I find it fascinating to repeat once again, that, when we speak of labour rights here, we have heard from Mrs. Buric, praised the HDZ measures he launched to protect workers in the coronary crisis in a situation in which they gave fees not to workers, but to companies, i.e. company owners, as well as bookmakers that had several hundred million profits last year. This is a framework in which we need to read every law on work and work, which appears here. As far as this law is concerned, it seems that many here are not clear what it is really about, it means that it is a law that is in some way pure formality, which is the application of European laws in us and therefore we can agree that in many parts it really protects workers. So it refers to the protection of foreign posted workers in such a way that the foreign posted worker has the possibility of compensation equal to the same, for the country-to-country worker, according to a collective, extended collective contract, etc., and even agency workers from the countries that they will be, agency workers sent to the host country will have the same rights as the agency workers of the country in which the worker is addressed. But now there's a big question mark above our heads. What kind of workers are they? So what kind of workers from the EU economic space are they going to come to Croatia? Of course, the questionnaire appears to us because mostly Croatian workers are leaving and the construction workers are going to work in the EU countries, and of course we can say here that these workers will be better protected because they will be protected by both collective and extended collective collective collective agreements, such as the German workers. But what is then raised as a question is why we did not provide such rights with the Foreign Law when we talk about not EU workers. And this law shows all the inequality that we are constantly talking about between the rich centre of Europe, the periphery of Europe, and then between the periphery and not the EU of workers coming to that Europe. So, this subsidiarity doesn't apply, so we don't have convergence, we don't have subsidiarity, we can't talk about any approximation of workers' rights, it's a great law, apply all the provisions of this law on references to the Foreign Law. Why didn't we apply all these provisions to the Foreign Law? Why do workers, construction workers from BiH will not be rewarded with equal rights that workers in Croatia have under the collective contract or why our worker, when he goes to Germany, will have the opportunity to protect under the collective contract, etc.? I think there are two things that I'm going to try to point out. So, in this law, when we talk about the law, it refers, therefore, to European workers sent to work in Croatia. We also have to say that very often, we also have to point out that very often companies, which were registered in Croatia, which were mostly construction workers in Germany, say, in this way will be less competitive to German companies and that this German economy is very much protected in one form, and on the other hand that we will have very little, I don't know, Italian workers, Austrian workers, German workers who will work for our salary because this law implies that we pay and that the working conditions are determined according to a better option. So those who are IP engineers Italians will have better pay than Croatian engineers at the same level. There's something I'm going to try to say in the final debate, so there's a lot of problems with this law, but there seems to be a lot of things that haven't been said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5221	Thank you very much. You can stay if you have two replicas. Mr Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5222	For the second time, Mrs Peovic is referring to the closeness of HDZ and SDP, and I must say that her debate largely confirms the closeness of what is called the far right and far left. So in xenophobia, in Europhobia you meet there and there is no difference between you and... the party representing the extreme right-wing position. That's the first thing I want to say. And secondly, you obviously as a young representative have not yet realized that there are many laws that can be regulated and that need to regulate labour rights in this country. The law on foreigners is not the law, it does not regulate it, it regulates some other issues entirely, so it should be kept in mind that not all can be settled in one law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5223	Here you go, Mrs. Peovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5224	Here's what happens if I seem to be similar to my colleagues to Bulju, then it can only happen to you if you haven't been careful and it happens often. So what we share is really very little. If our proposal is not to give workers the rights that a German worker has, then we can't really talk about xenophobia. What is our perspective obviously to the SDP is not quite clear to the end because SDP has long lost the criticism of the political economy as the foundation of the left, so it is not fully understood what we are saying, and then perhaps your colleague Bulj and I may seem similar. And the fact that the Foreign Law couldn't regulate that, it's not true. So, in the Foreign Law, we also have regulated labour rights, and I welcomed it when you mentioned that some labour rights are really better, and this could have been regulated that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5225	Mr. Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5226	Thank you very much. ...the similarity between you and Mr. Bulja is unknown in full eu procedures and this legislative process. Here we have an example of the transformation of the European Council and Parliament's directive, the HDZ is in the European Parliament in the Pucana family, the SDP in the Socialist family, but there is no majority in the European Parliament, among the groups being negotiated. The aim of this directive and the transport, yes, is that only 1100 people in Croatia have posted workers, but what you are looking for, and what counterpart Bencic is looking for, the Foreign Law defines employment in this country of foreign third-country workers. This right stems from companies from other countries being able to operate in this country that we have a common market and there are completely two different areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5227	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5228	Yes, but here we talked about a few thousand if I remember Mrs. Buric said the worker from Slovenia, if I'm right etc., so 500 you said, yes, it's a very small number of workers. We are now here, and here the SDP and HDZ agree, it is a great law, we are actually talking about a very small number of these posted workers from the EU's economic space in Croatia, and these workers will very often benefit from the rights of their country of origin because their rights are much better. So when we talk about Austrian, Italian workers they will not benefit from the rights of Croatian workers or workers protected by the Croatian collective agreement, that we are not saying that most workers in Croatia are not even protected by a collective contract anymore, so this could not even be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5229	Thank you very much. There are no other replicas. Thank you. Mr. Marko Pavić next individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5230	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. I am pleased to see today the draft bill transposing the Directive on posted workers. The aim of this directive is to strengthen workers' rights as well as those who come to Croatia to work in other countries. What's a forward worker? The posted worker is the person who is employed in his home country and the company that received some contract and a job in another country sending him to her or him to another country. In Croatia, as we have heard slightly more this year than 1150 workers coming from other countries, primarily Slovenia, Italy, Austria, Germany, so richer than Croatia and one thirty thousand workers of Croatian companies who refer primarily to Germany as I remember almost two-thirds of the workers Croatia is sending to work in Germany. This law guarantees the right to compensation for the work carried out and defines compensation for the work carried out, so that workers are guaranteed the minimum amount of wages that come and work in the Republic of Croatia. This will not have much effect once again, given that a small number of posted workers are in Croatia, but the transposition of this directive in other countries will have a great effect on the standards and rights of Croatian workers who are employed in Croatia go to another country with, where their company guides them. And there's exactly the difference, this part might be packages along with the Foreign Law, and notice, let's remember that the Foreign Law defines those workers of third countries who work in Croatia. A major difference in legal origin is the origin of 4 basic freedoms, freedoms of the EU, which is primarily the abundance of people, goods and services. Therefore, companies operating in other countries have the right to operate in the common market as well as Croatian firms have the right to operate in other Member States, it is a common market of over 500 million people and these companies must have a regulated that when they refer their workers to another country that their workers are protected and have a guarantee of rights. In practice, it means that some company, since we see that most of them are from Slovenia, Italy and Austria, which, for example, builds a bridge that may be funded by EU funds, can send its engineer to the Republic of Croatia, but this engineer is employed in the country from which it comes. Third-country workers who come to the Foreign Law are employed in, with employers who come to the Republic of Croatia and of course the rights are different. In addition to the above, Croatia welcomed the establishment of... Therefore, agencies that will monitor the labour market, which will deal with and control cross-border posted workers, and this law also ensures quality, accommodation, the costs of internal mobility of workers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about what this government and the previous government did for the workers, let's also remember the measures we have inside the crown, once again over 600,000 workers used measures, let's remember the active employment policy, over 10 billion kuna is that. will be invested, up to now 8 billion kuna has been invested in active employment policy measures in the mandate of the first government of Andrej Plenkovic. And today, when we look at the unemployment rate, the number of unemployed in Croatia, 149 000 and over 9500 job openings. In all, I am pleased that this directive has come to the stage of transposing, congratulating the Ministry of State Secretary that you have succeeded and we think that it is a significant step in protecting labour rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5231	Stay, please. We have two replicas, the first replica has Mrs. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5232	Dear Representative Pavic, my question is actually double. On the one hand, you said that the Law on Foreigners cannot be regulated in the same way as the question of the rights of workers coming from non-EU countries. What I am particularly interested in is: (a) are you aware that most of the objections to the Foreign Law were precisely on the issue and equal rights so as not to affect the labour price and that, in fact, by such an equalization, they would get that effect? and (b) which law would you regulate if not by the Foreign Law, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5233	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5234	Now we're discussing the Law on Posting Workers, we discussed the Foreign Law last week.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5235	There's a different replica of Mrs. Crescent's. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5236	So it's really not clear to me how it's possible that you don't see a direct relationship and a paradox and a disproportionate relationship between those two laws. It's no accident to mention the Foreign Law. So, if the same law exists here within the EEA in Croatia, which protects the labour price because if you have the same rights as the German and Croatian workers, then really the workforce will be protected, so both rights and labour prices. The same thing does not happen in the Foreign Law that we talked about the other day because it is not the EU citizens and because these workers who come to Croatia, such as BiH in the construction sector, are really reducing the labour price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5237	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5238	The cost of working in the construction sector has not fallen, but it has increased by 30% given the extended collective contract, so it absolutely suits you. And once again here, we are talking about the Law on the sending of passing workers, these rights of workers stem from the rights of their employers to operate in Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5239	Thank you, too. No more replicas. Thank you very much. The next and the last speaker is Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5240	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about a very important law regarding workers, in this case a cross-border decision on workers arriving in the Republic of Croatia. I've seen that he's a former minister. Before he'd be called a commercial traveller of expensive wines, expensive perfumes and deodorant, Mr. Pavić put himself here as some kind of worker's protector and the only acquaintance, that I have a high school, is that your problem? Do you know about Ivo Radonja? And she's got high school and a dalmatinian worker. At that time, I was brought in and locked up for them because women hadn't received any salary from Italian Ladini for a year, and all the laws were in the interest of foreign companies. Well, I can list them for you. Here, teleopers. Take a look at the working rights of teleoperators operating in Croatia and Germany. See how much the teleoperator's profits are in Croatia and how they behave in Croatia, they don't need construction permits for base stations or infrastructure and what Croatian politics gave them, what our old ones earned, it's telephone infrastructure, it went into their hands, and they are rewarded for numerous places. So don't underestimate people, you got 200 votes of preferential, and you were minister, that's what it says about your work. And I got a lot, a lot more from you, look how much you'll see. Look how much. And if you disrespect people who went to the Homeland War when they were 19 years old, I'm not talking about myself and 20 years old were professional soldiers, Croatian Army officers, you think they can only be in HDZ. Is that what you think? Do you think we who went to the Homeland War to defend, to command in difficult situations like at the age of 19 when it was killed at this time, in the area... It's over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That we don't have the right to talk about labour rights. Well, I'm from a working family. My dad's transport worker was at the Dalmatinka factory, and now what? Nothing less was intelligent or... from us here to anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And don't look at people like that, so people don't understand European laws. I absolutely understand, since we entered the EU that we have never imported again, we have never exported less. That 6% of GDP is from our people who are working the outside that you've spent and now you're passing the Foreign Law without quotas, you're going in unlimitedly. And 2/3 of Croatia is empty. And of course this foreign law is related to the law, to this law. Of course he's connected. An unlimited number, without a quota, people can enter. Since 2017 there have been 9,000 foreign workers' licences, 2017. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: 38 grand. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 78 thousand, this year 108 thousand, which means 100 thousand more in a year, in this year than in 2017, foreign workers, and 6% of the GDP in which you were in the government, in which you boasted about economic growth, is from our evicted people who spent these policies in Ireland, Germany, who spent and they send money to their families. Unfortunately, not only did they leave, but their families did, which is why there are only 2 less first graders in my Cetin area. Because of that policy. Labour has been destroyed. So the labor force is absolutely destroyed. I can only observe through my Cetina region. Everything that's done has been destroyed. The worker is the one who creates by God and by man and by Marx, it doesn't matter by whom, the worker is the man who creates. That's what I, my colleagues, my colleagues will get along, it's less important we want to get along in some political matters, not get along. And in what way are you a greater Christian than me or a socialist than me, in what? What do you say? And you really have the ability to demean people, for example. Here's the case they were in the Homeland War, which isn't in HDZ right now, right now. Why are you disrespecting them? Imagine if Tommy Bear was told you were like this. We were young back then, we went to war, I don't know if you can even figure it out in your head. We went all together to fight for freedom, for the Croatian man, irrelevantly, was in the SDP, We can, in the Homeland Movement, in HDZ, we all fought together for Croatia at the time. And someone was a professional soldier, I was an officer for 20 years and don't disrespect people. We all have the same right here to discuss, speak and draw conclusions. And if you and the SDP had the exact same policy, it was proven. And the result is visible. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5241	Stay, stay. You have replicas. Mr. Pavić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5242	Thank you very much. I've never discriminated against people at the level of education, though, as a minister, I've always fought for even the right to education and education to be a new generation of human rights. So, that's what I've always fought for. But what bothers me is that you're always talking off topic, not talking about this law, huh, maybe that's why you're in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5243	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5244	Thank you very much. You were talking about how you connected me and your colleague to look alike. I don't know how much I look like a colleague. You were talking about the subject? You can only speak as a commercial traveller of expensive perfumes, you did it only as a minister, of expensive wine, it was your job and assignment at the ministry. And you as our minister, you got 200 votes, hey, do you understand? And you're talking about legitimacy, which I won in the 9th heavy constituency of 10,000 votes, alone, without coalitions, with the Independent Lists Bridge and you who got after the ministry as a commercial passenger with an expensive one, which went to the ministry's burden, which went to the ministry's burden. A merchant who needs to take care of workers, he takes care of perfumes of expensive and expensive wine and he now has 200 votes behind it preferentially. I mean, what are we talking about, so you were talking about out of the blue. You tried to compare me and your colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5245	Mr. Uncle. More, more, more, there's still a replica, only if you won't answer. Uncle, here you go. Mr. Uncle, did he hurt his Rules of Procedure? You? Yeah... I didn't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5246	So he's hurt. 238. My colleague Bulj insults his colleague Pavic by calling him a commercial passenger. I think there has to be one thing in this House of Highers, and this is not an appropriate debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5247	There's also a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and so is Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5248	I see that the violation of Rules of Procedure in 238, colleague Strick, I see that he has become an attorney for the former minister, is he a commercial passenger? I just know that the Ministry was mostly buying perfume expensives. Croatian wines and deodorants, and this was bought... [[Intruder: And you are calling on 238?]] And there's a really successful minister,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I'm a salesman. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5249	What are you calling yourself? .../Intruder: Warning.’... On the... And you have to call on some of them, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5250	238, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5251	Did you say that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5252	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5253	Okay. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5254	If I can get time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5255	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5256	Can I have some time, a few seconds?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5257	You can, you can. You've got ten seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5258	Here's a colleague of Strick's, he was successful, he was a successful minister as a commercial traveller of expensive wines and perfumes, so I'm withdrawing this Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5259	Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you very much, but now you have a replica. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5260	My colleagues and colleagues. Kola Bulj gave a good review of the work of the current government, saying that four years ago there were 7,000 work permits issued, and now last or this already nearly 100,000, it is precisely saying in favour of the current government's economic activity that in the past term the economy was growing, jobs were opening up, and this is also a good indicator of the good economic work of the current government, that there was no crown of the crisis, of course everything would be far better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5261	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5262	Well, pal, the crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, we're not self-sufficient, we're not gonna have the border closed for seven days, we're not gonna have the synergic, they're not irrigated fields from Sinjski to Slavonski, we're not gonna have enough self-sufficiency in anything, we've never had incentives in agriculture again, they get incentives for those who don't know about livestock, cows, those who don't know how many cows have tits, they get incentives, cattle who torture and work hard, they don't get... Incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we are not self-sufficient, and how strong is the Republic of Croatia and how economically you have a lift during your government, says 6% of GDP, 20 billion kuna, when I said it in the past term, then, first of all, they said it was my footings, and the prime minister, and later it turned out to be true, 6% of GDP, mostly on the world, which comes from abroad and in the Republic of Croatia, and that's the part that the CNB registered, and how many people give in money to their families?, that's economic growth, 2/3 of Croatia are burned country without people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5263	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mrs. Katarina Peovic will have the final word, in fact, in front of the Green-Left bloc MPs' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5264	Oh, here, I have the right word?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5265	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5266	First of all, I have to comment on the carnival of ideas and issues, and the problems of work are happening precisely because the nominally left parties have given up on workers, because they are fully relevant to the neoliberal policies and have agreed with HDZ in all negative political and economic trends, so you have Mira Bulja. It's your fault. The work should be appreciated and the work should be devoted fully and seriously, it is my peer review, and this left side. The other thing I'd like to say is that this law needs to be approached with a serious and elaborated once again is what we said here in the debate because many, so even the viewers won't know exactly what this is about. This is about a law that we see, everyone agrees about it very well, the workers will be protected by a collective contract if they come and if they are referred to work in Croatia, then the right left is saying that there are some problems, so I will try to sum up once again what we have put out here as problems and why this Law should be seen in correlation with the Foreign Law. So we need to understand that this law is a clean formality, the application of European laws in us, the law refers to European workers to work in Croatia, but it is not how we have seen too many European companies dealing with the European workers' work in Croatia. Conversely, not workers from other European Union countries are sent to work, but most often Croatian workers, largely those on the building, hired by companies that then sent them to work in rich European countries. So these construction workers were cheaper than European workers, which is why companies registered in Croatia have ruined the price of working for rich countries in the centre, Croatians are making it easier to build in other countries, right, and they did it cheaper. The rich centre of Europe protects itself, therefore, from such practice, and so is the answer of fellow Pavić, so why are we talking about it now, and at the level of the European Union there is also a regulation in which we do not interfere in any way with our specific problem and autonomously refer to the laws that are being passed there, the European Centre therefore decides to introduce laws according to which addressed workers apply the same rules as domestically, means German, Danish, Swedish workers, this means that not only must they provide minimum wage, the minimum must be provided only if there are no extended collective contracts in that dam, but the amount that the domestic worker has to a collective contract or otherwise, or that for agency workers, let's say the fee should not be less than the salaries of workers employed by the host in the same business, and that the amount that is really paid to the worker is as much more similar to the receiving of the workers who come to the same work in the same way, the same way, the same work of the same way, the other workers who receive the same job from the same job. In this way, German companies were protected from competition and low labour prices where the company sending workers from Croatia to Germany manages to get a job in Germany, there may not have been a drop in labour prices in construction, but certainly the wages did not grow, if the employer can get for a cheaper price of workers, he will insist on that cheaper price even though the construction sector is making a lot of money, right. In order for the matter to look fair, it was necessary to write and vote in all the countries of the European Union, and so on in Croatia, this law that protects companies that refer to Swedish, German, Danish, Italian workers to work in Croatia, we have seen how many are, 1,500 people, so it would be good to see how many workers will now apply this Act, which are workers, what are their average salaries, how much are the average salaries of our workers sent to other EU countries, and how many are they going to be, and how many are the salaries of workers in our country, and how much will they accept our salaries, and how much they will actually be paid from their wealthier countries. We will probably look for such workers in us with a candle if we exclude managers who manage foreign companies in Croatia, and they receive salaries according to a more favourable version of the country from which they come. So the Austrian managers certainly won't take the salary of workers who are here in Croatia is protected by sometimes collective agreement. So to finish, what's much more interesting, and that's why we insisted on it is why this one The rules don't apply to the Foreign Law? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5267	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Miro Bulj will speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5268	Here's when it comes to the rights of workers then fascinated me here on behalf of the club I'll say a comparison between my colleague Vidovic and us other parties in the opposition that we agree. Policies in the Republic of Croatia and you and Mr Pavić and all those who have spoken this similarity, policies in the Republic of Croatia can only be observed through the results of the current one. If we are talking about workers, there is no worker, sometimes an example of shipbuilding in Split was brand, brand, world awards for the best tankers, boats. It used to be from my neighborhood of Cetinski from Zagora, i.e. Only from the Cetinski end of 60 buses tomorrow would we go to Split from Sinj, and now 1.5 van, these are comparisons about labor, the worker is destroyed to the ground, I only know that we are in capitalism, but we have to have social sensitivity, we have to feel it. The legislator did not work in the interest of the man worked in the interest of only capital and now we are in a situation, so we cannot separate this law from the Foreign Law because there are no more quotas, i.e. Tomorrow, if he votes the assembly, and most of them have, she'll vote me for what I heard, and the SDP will accept it. So there's no quota, and right now we're having a rapid demographic downturn and we don't have a worker on the domestic market. Why? Since we have been in the EU, especially in this part, which is the worst since we entered the EU when it was called for well-being is a decline, there are fewer and fewer workers in our area, and the growing demand for foreign workers. And this law that solves these parts that people who come to work outside that they will have better legislation, which means that it is better in Austria or I don't know than in other EU members than in Croatia, that is understood. We have much more important problems that we don't solve. We simply respect the directives. Here's when they pick strawberries in Vrgorac and the Mandarin people from Herzegovina can't cross and that's a problem that are also Croats. It is only closed, now, now the border is only closed refugees can pass, and only these borders are closed, these Vaganj crossings for Livno, are only closed to Croats, I think everyone can pass except those people who migrate daily, work in Split, work in Sinj from Livna, those 70 km must go longer. It means to me those things that are currently and which solve problems, only with this closed border on Vagnja people from Livnje who work in Sinj or Split, have to travel 50, 60 km in one direction longer or to school their children from Livna, because Vaganj is closed, and here we pass the migrants that is amazing. So we are still pursuing this workforce to make it more simple and that we have at the border that would tribal be a national interest to preserve that people in Herzegovina and that part to preserve where our border is closest. So we have problems just don't solve them, we just attribute laws. Well, of course this law decides that whoever comes from Austria will work here before they choose that Austrian and that is the EU Directive, we do not solve anything here in essence except to encourage the law on foreigners who are bound by this law. We can't say that there's a foreign law where we don't even have quotas for workers anymore, no more quotas for the number of workers. I said 2017. 9,000, 2020. 108,000 work permits for foreigners. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty, we don't have a worker, I compared, here's only the Split Square 60 buses went from Zagora while the circus was working as God flows, we destroyed it all. So when we were working the highway when it was built, grama, the Split Ironworks fought for mammalian, Split mainly for survival, and we did not install a gram of iron in the highway from Croatia, and the Split Ironworks were imported into Turkey, and there the finished product returned. So, we destroyed the workers and the workers. That's right in the INI, that's how it is in everything, so in all the companies. And why did we do that? Because of the small profit-making small interests of individuals. We are now living in a market society, I am aware of that, but the laws were not worked in the interest of individuals and people of course and markets, but only in the interest of individuals here who want to prevail with complete capital and it happens in the Republic of Croatia. We only have a few rich capitalists, no middle layer, all the poor in essence, not the poor but now we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. If you go out of Zagreb Look, you'll see it's all empty. [[Thank you, time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5269	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State Majda Buric will now speak finally on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5270	Thank you, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, above all, thank you for the debate, and I will very briefly conclude only a few clarifications. So, this draft bill, as we have already had the opportunity to hear, establishes a comprehensive legal framework, which takes over the EU Directive in a single act in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and their primary objective is to protect workers' labour rights or working conditions. Now, to make it much clearer what I said, I'd like to set an example. Well, let's say, let's take an example of a construction worker because they're actually mostly workers. Now, if this construction worker is sent, say from Italy, he makes his collective contract pay for example. 1500 euros, and an extended collective contract for construction in the Republic of Croatia would pay 4500 kn. According to Art. 7 of this law relating to the application of a more favourable right in this case, the imaginary Italian worker will exercise the right to his Italian salary. However, if such a construction worker is referred from, e.g. BiH, in which it has the right to pay 3,000 kuna, during the duration of its reference to work in the Republic of Croatia, will in that case have the right to pay 4500 kuna under an extended collective contract. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to increase the equality of posted workers, to raise the rights of posted workers and to make it very simplistic that a foreign worker cannot be cheaper than a domestic worker. Also, what I must mention, and in fact to point out in particular, is the question of the quota or work permits issued in 2020, because several times incorrect information has been said, so so far there have been 25 781 work permits issued in this year, which is 33% of consumption, i.e. consumption, is another 45 021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5271	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5272	I'm so glad it's connected to the Foreign Law, yes, it's true that 78 thousand permits were to be granted, but for the coronary crisis, that number is so say, it's not approved, because of the coronary crisis. That number of 78 grand, and now there's over 30 grand working in the Republic of Croatia, you said 25 somewhere, right? It's the 108 grand that are supposed to be this year, but the coronary crisis has affected that the part that has the license, not right now, is not consumed. That's true. Tell me, what was 2017, 2018, 2019, how many work permits were made by foreigners and whether the Foreign Law is connected and we no longer have quotas, that we must enter as much as necessary, with this law that you present to us here now, is that related? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5273	- Mrs. Crescent. Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5274	Once again, I would like to point out, dear Representative Bulj, that this government has very much protected workers and employers in particular in the coronary crisis. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that today, compared to the end of the 2nd month of this year, we have 16,000 more insurance workers, which means 16,000 more workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5275	Thank you. No, no, no, you can't do that. There's something else you need to say, ma'am. Buric, it's over? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It is now time to: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of Internet mediation services, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 9; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 9 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have the Secretary of State with us. Natasha Mikush Zigman, Zigman, I'm sorry, from the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Do you want to have an introductory word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5278	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear MPs and MPs, here, allow me to present more in detail to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I am its content, i.e. the objectives and purpose of the law, as well as the regulation which enables this implementing law, which we want to achieve. This law applies, as introduced in the implementation of the EU Parliament and Council Regulation 2019/1150 on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of Internet-mediated services. So I stress that it refers to private entities, business entities, and not natural persons, it is important to say in the opening part itself. What do we want by means of a regulation, or implementing law? The regulation is of course directly applicable in the Croatian legal system. It wants to achieve that the common market, the EU market of which is of course a Croatian member and in order to ensure that business users or private entities using services of internet platforms such as Google, Apple, Amazon or in the case of Croatia have several platforms such as e-Kupi or Bazara or others, so that business users who use their services have secured transparency in their business and also effective legal protection. According to a survey conducted by the Eurobarometer, almost half of the small and medium-sized enterprises at EU level are their products and sales services via internet markets and, of course, this trend is on the rise, especially given the circumstances of March and early this year, and the pandemic COVID, therefore it is certainly increasing or increasing the trend in e-commerce. Small and medium-sized enterprises generally do so when they work with Internet platforms using a key system, which means that internet platforms give them their advertising space, give them their payment systems as favourable as possible to them in relation to the situation where they should do so individually, and also provide certain standards or conditions such as consumer protection mechanisms, which are, of course, regulated by law and which all service providers or companies offering certain goods must adhere to. However, despite the fact that trading through such internet intermediaries and platforms certainly offers the benefits I have previously mentioned for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. There have been frequent situations where large internet platforms actually used their privileged position in relation to the companies they have collaborated with and worked with in this way in an illegal way. The analyses conducted just by the European Commission on the EU market have shown that nearly 50% of European companies that operate and co-operate with platforms that they face some kind of problem. So let me point out one such example to paint specifically what can be done. One of the more famous examples is the company Spotify small company that provided or provided music playback services through large internet platforms or the possibility of buying or listening to commercial music via example Apple or Facebook. Following the conclusion of the contract, therefore, after the company started on account of the interests of the consumer and the use of their services through such a platform to earn quite large profits, the platforms wanted to change the conditions under which they originally concluded such a contract and to make additional profits in relation to the original contract. This brings just the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to press charges against internet platforms, to seek their right and to prevent them from further innovating and creating new business models. I must say that in the case of Croatia no such significant cases have been recorded, but of course this regulation refers to the entire EU area, so Croatia as well as its parts. These problems were often brought by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in a situation that because they do not have sufficient financial resources or human capacity to participate in such judicial proceedings which can be of course and long-term, they were simply not able to exercise their rights satisfactorily or in a sufficiently fast manner. Therefore, this legislative initiative launched by the European Commission and resulting in a regulation directly applicable in our legal system is precisely important for the creation of a legislative framework guaranteeing fair and effective competition in this form of business. The aim of the regulation is therefore, and the aim of this implementing law, which we are now proposing better and more effective protection of business users from internet platforms, since contractual relations in itself and systems in which these problems have been addressed nationalally did not provide sufficient protection for small business users. A regulation has been adopted and not a directive precisely on the grounds that it applies directly in all EU Member States on equal terms and on equal terms. Therefore, it is the Member States, and this is exactly what we are doing with this implementing law, to determine and regulate the implementing and supervisory bodies, so this bill provides that the body responsible for implementing the regulation should be the Ministry of Economy Affairs, or the Ministry of origin from which I come and the authority responsible for inspection is the State Inspector of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the command, enforcement and inspection mechanisms, this implementing law also regulates infringements and measures which will punish the same offence in such a way as to prevent potential perpetrators of such acts from committing them. And perhaps just a brief look at some of the things that have been said today, or asked about it, and at the very session of the Committee on Legislatives. Therefore, the regulation applies primarily to internet platforms where two business entities are combined to sell, so it does not go beyond that, it is also important to sell, while other online intervention services are being dealt with by other regulations, for example for credit and banking institutions there are separate regulations, and the rest of the Internet intervention is subject to the Law on e-commerce or a new act currently in preparation at EU level, etc. ... means the digital service regulation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second question was why the supervision in the state inspectorate, given that the MUP also has certain powers and competences over internet traffic. The MUP certainly deals with, therefore, a similar part of the job, but it primarily analyzes and sanctions illegal activities via the Internet and deals with the issue of illegal content, while the issue of trade, of course, solves then the state inspectorate, and for this reason it is proposed here, so that it is just being supervised by the implementation of this law. When we talk about the state inspectorate then of course he is, he is supposed to work in the way he works in other forms of trade, which is to issue first of all a warning. If the perpetrator of the offence during the conduct of the surveillance or within a reasonable period of time means that from a few days he acts in such a way as to remove his or her error or offence, then it will not be necessary to initiate the infringement procedure, or, otherwise, it may be possible to initiate an infringement procedure or to go to alternative dispute resolution. In alternative dispute resolution, existing mechanisms that have already been established in view of either the peace centre or the courts of honor at HGK, HOC and other bodies would be used, and we have already come into contact with them to sensitize and begin to specialize in these forms of alternative dispute resolution. And the last highlighted question was the question of taxation of Internet intermediaries if they were established in places like this. tax havens, therefore, where taxes are either not paid or reduced rates are paid, resulting in a higher profit level. Also, since this issue is, of course, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, and here I can only say in front of the Ministry of Economy that this is the case at EU level and that Croatia is certainly fully supporting that the income tax is paid depending on where the business entity is mostly digitally present or where it overly sells its service or some good that it produces. Here, it was just a brief review in fact of today's meeting of the Committee on Economy. I thank you for your attention and for your support for this implementing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5279	Mr. Dario Zurovec asked for this replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5280	Now, respected and respected MPs, I would primarily like to thank you for today's rather constructive debate here on the Committee on Economy itself, and I would just like to point out one general thing that I am not now entering into the details of this law. Otherwise, all of these penalties, which are otherwise prescribed in the light of the need for each country to ensure that these penalties are proportionate and correct. I think that when we put this up to that maybe sometimes it gives too much opportunity to the inspectors themselves or to the one who controls that practically whoever's under his quotes might be punishment less, the one who's not that close to him might be punishment for more. I always like that things are taxed, as I said on the board itself, some violations might be charged more, and some less because even if you're a subject, it's not the same if you pay 60,000 kuna, and punishment, for example. 50 as a legal entity and 10 as a natural person or if you pay 150 000 kuna. It's just here's one thing. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5281	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5282	When we talk about natural persons, it was actually meant to be a twist, because that formulation was introduced into the law, and, of course, there is a certain range in every law, a certain range in which punishment can be imposed depending on how serious the offense is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5283	The second replica of Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5284	Dearly noted, in your own debate, that there is a particular problem with courts or that these small craftsmen will have a very difficult time fighting their justice in court, taking into account and the fact that it costs and the fact that it lasts. Is it possible in the law itself then to install the one to whom the penalty is imposed to prescribe in some way the compensation that should be paid to someone without this one having to go to court? I mean, in some ways, it doesn't have to be a big deal, but if we get our craftsmen to go to the courts, many of them probably won't be waiting for a verdict. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5285	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5286	As I have initially explained, therefore, given the duration of the proceedings, not only in Croatia but also in other EU Member States, such a solution has been proposed which is considered to be faster to correct certain errors or offences which, in this case, Internet service providers or platforms can commit to business users. The final instance is always a court, so if, after the conduct of the State Inspectorate or if the order of order is failed, there is therefore a fair solution, of course, there is always an instance that any party can address in order to obtain what it considers to be just. At this point, therefore, there is no mechanism whereby compensation would be regulated through this law. So, in case someone thinks he's been hurt, he's gonna need a special litigation to look for that. damage and thus obtain compensation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5287	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're done with the replicas. Madam Secretary of State, we're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Zarko Tušek is first in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5288	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable State Secretary, is a large part of everything about this actually technical and implementing law, what is important and what we have discussed today on the Committee on Economy has been presented by the State Secretary, the session was very constructive and very good and one set of even more concrete proposals is presented, and I am convinced that we will have in the second reading and more elaborated and elaborated proposal of the law, the implementing law, but in the first place before I point out a few moments which I also consider important in the name of the HDZ Club, I would like to point out the importance of the regulation as a document important for the functioning of the EU internal market in general. In fact, we are all aware that Internet platforms offer access across, very different markets for consumers and that they have become a interface for millions of large and small enterprises, that online retail or that sales are highly developed, that there are a number of professional services and applications and that it is simply a segment of economy that is inescapable today. Also,.../incomprehensible/... search engines generate large online traffic for all businesses, so their position as some market mediator in business relations with customers has enabled them to engage in unfair commercial practices that can cause significant economic damage to companies that use such search engines. I was getting a little ready for this debate, so I also came up with serious research data from the EU position, which surveyed nearly 3,500 companies had several serious studies on all the legal and economic aspects of this part of the market, all these platforms used, the ways of their jobs and everything else that is important in this segment. It is also important to mention almost 46% of business users who were surveyed in this study noticed problems in their business relations with platforms, and nearly 21% showed that these problems are seen very often. 66% of EU SMEs surveyed explain that their position in the search results has a significant impact on their sales, which means that at the start they are suspended if they do not accept the imposed practice of a service provider that may be deviating from fair business. It has been shown that existing or envisaged measures by Member States do not cover a whole range of potentially harmful commercial practices or the range of Internet intermediaries on a platform that can be included in them, and that is why today, and we actually have this implementing law that we adopt. We will adopt the regulation of the European Commission. So the essence of this Regulation is transparency, clear and accessible conditions of business, fairness and efficiency in the legal protection of contractual shareholders of business relations. Giving companies greater predictability in their relations with platforms as well as effective means of solving problems should be encouraged together by their use of network platforms as a means of growing their business, and this is extremely important for all of our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises who most often use such services. Here, too, the consumer's position as end-user should be mentioned, although this regulation affects them in some way indirectly, they should also benefit from its adoption because trust, predictability and legal certainty in the internet environment is also extremely important for consumers. One of the topics touched by the State Secretary, which today was very interestingly debated on the Committee on the Economy, is the issue of taxes and taxation of Internet and digital services, etc. digital tax since we are aware that large multinational, internet and software giants make revenue worldwide, and their fiscal centres are based on low-tax territory to avoid paying a fair share of taxes in the place of business. From the point of view of this topic, if we are talking about large multinational corporations, I think we are all familiar with this, that we are all more or less articulated in public space, but this topic is more important from the position of small companies, since there are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia who can start companies in other EU Member States, do Internet sales services and possibly use better tax situations for themselves in these EU Member States, means a lower VAT rate in some trade areas if there are needs and benefits for this, and it is evident that there is. Also, we discussed today also the subject of facebook advertising and the fact that, through facebook, a large part of the trade is done even as often used goods that are also not subject to taxes, in fact today it was the subject of one of the shows on HRT this morning, so it is a large, large area that needs more quality and serious and from the positions of tax laws to be regulated. Above all, from the position of the EU as a single market, and then normally from the country's position, each member state individually. Now, in a technical sense, I am no longer talking about what the draft law of this implementing law says, all these exact items and indications were highlighted by the State Secretary on behalf of the Ministry of Economy as a Proposer. I just think that we should support such a proposal for an implementing law normally in the first reading, that we should try to appreciate as much as possible the constructive debate that was held today at the Committee on the Economy. It is an extremely important segment of the economy and markets that need to be regulated and in a business sense it is necessary to introduce much, much more order than it has today. Now, in that sense, I thank you for your attention and every good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5289	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Nadj in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5290	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing that more and more citizens are buying online, and it has especially increased digital sales during the COVID 19 pandemic, since you can buy from the safety of your home and not go physically to the shopping mall or even when we choose the physical way of purchase, little as it is said in a colloquitically to find out which of the merchants offers the goods we want to buy. More than 2 million Croatian citizens buy online during the COVID 19 pandemic and will probably continue this trend. And while before the pandemic, the most online shopping of clothes, shoes and fashion accessories and white technique is now increasingly buying food and food products, and more and more seem to be online search engines before we choose to buy a product, they are already offering us a certain type of product as if they are stalking us and knowing our wishes and preferences so that if you equip the apartment and intend to buy a sofa, whatever site you open on the Internet, you will be offered three-seaters of certain manufacturers, and now the question is why exactly are such manufacturers and not others? Obviously, each search engine has its own algorithms, or the way the search engines decide on the order of search results. Thus, using algorithms seeks to meet the requirements of those being searched more precisely to find the desired information, answers, products and services. Whether Google or corporations will make similar economic forces of their algorithms more transparent, I doubt it, because they will call for a business secret. The question is, how much is artificial intelligence involved in creating such algorithms? I'm sure more and more every day. The growing dependence of business operators on certain internet services implies that providers of such online media services may participate in a number of potentially harmful business practices that restrict sales to business users through such providers and may compromise their trust. This Regulation is a good initiative to protect micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as the first users of these services as well as to create a legislative framework guaranteeing fair and efficient competition. In the Republic of Croatia, we should also be of great importance to allow small and medium-sized enterprises to increase the opportunity to grow on the single digital market through their own website and through internet platforms and that the company that has its own website has as many potential customers as possible. The Internet system should be competitive, fair and transparent, that businesses behave responsibly and predictablely. It must have happened to you when you typed in the search engine, that the search engine did not show you the company you had in mind or that you did not know by which parameters you were offered constantly the same and the same company. What is the guarantee for the effective application of this Regulation? In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 15th Regulation, each Member State shall ensure the application and effective implementation of this Regulation. Member States shall lay down rules on measures to be applied to the infringement of this Regulation and shall ensure that they are implemented. The measures provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. As when we talk about deterrent measures, it should certainly introduce preventive measures to prevent procedures that would prevent the achievement of the objective of this Regulation, which is to ensure a fair, predictable, sustainable and reliable Internet business environment in the context of the internal market at Union level. The Regulation states that this Regulation should not oblige Member States to provide for the implementation by official duty or to impose fines. The proposal for a law implementing that Regulation as the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation is laid down by the authority of the State Administration in charge of economic affairs, i.e. the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, in which, in accordance with the Internal Design Regulation of that Ministry, the establishment and the Innovation Infrastructure Service is established. How modern that sounds. This service should also carry out tasks related to the coordination of business, development and improvement of information systems to support digital transformation and the economy. According to the Internal Design Regulation, 5 employees are foreseen, I wonder how many of them are the information professions that could be competent to deal with the challenges of implementing this Regulation? The proposal for a law implementing that Regulation states that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget. How will the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development implement this Regulation? Won't an education be organised, at least, that the code proposed should regulate everything? I doubt the ministry's employees are competent to produce a visual copy of that code. Information experts who run from the state administration as devils from incense because wages are far lower than they can get in the economy will not flock to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. So outside consultants will still cost something. It is unserious to state that the implementation of the law does not require resources in the state budget. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development shall also collect relevant information in cooperation with the European Commission on the relationship between Internet media providers and their business users and between Internet search engines, corporate users of websites. As it will collect such relevant information, it is not clear from this provision, and nothing is stated in the explanation. It is also stated that the state administration authority responsible for the economy will encourage the establishment of specialised peacekeeping bodies to settle disputes and reach agreement with specific entities regarding the conclusion of out-of-court settlements. It is also unclear how the ministry will encourage the establishment of specialised peacekeeping bodies to resolve disputes. It is a declarative provision that has no weight whatsoever to achieve the establishment of specialised peacekeeping bodies. It is explained that the authorities responsible for the economy in cooperation with the European Commission and relevant stakeholders will encourage the establishment of specialised peacekeeping bodies, which at this time a small number at EU level, let alone in the Republic of Croatia, and one of the positive examples is the centre for peace in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. If there are few at EU level, there is no way we will soon have another peacemaker body in the Republic of Croatia. The inspection of the implementation of this Regulation shall be carried out by a market inspection in accordance with the Law on the State Inspectorate. In order to carry out inspection controls on market inspection officers, Internet intervention providers are obliged to provide introductions to business data, insight into business documentation and associated rational equipment and devices in connection with the obligations prescribed by this law and regulation. How will market inspectors monitor Internet media providers using computer equipment and devices? Isn't that a little funny when we're talking about on-line shopping on the Internet. Furthermore, when we know that there are not enough IT officers in the state administration, there will still be plenty of water going through Sava while the market inspection will be competent to carry out inspections in the digital sphere of Internet trade, but therefore high fines are provided for in the infringement procedure. For a legal person from 50 to 100,000 kuna. It's obvious that when the state doesn't know how to prevent any unwanted behavior, then it can prescribe high fines. Therefore, education and prevention should be prescribed, not high fines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5291	Thank you. Mr. Bojan, Bojan Glasevic will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5292	.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... Dear colleagues and colleagues in a country that has not yet mastered the seal, today we need to talk about something that is subject to me, I would say more present than future, but still extremely important. The question I think of which my colleagues and colleagues, predecessors and predecessors have spoken many, so I won't, I won't be obliged to say that it is one of the bigger battles of our time, at least when it comes to our country to bring it to the level at which some other EU member states are now aware that the sovereignty of modern our time is more the one in the digital eco system than the one in physical space, and in that sense what we are talking about today is good because it deals with this very thing. In this particular case, I think it is, in fact, because I speak on behalf of the club of MPs and advocates, we think that one of the main things that perhaps should be discussed is the question of the relationship between end-users and Internet intermediaries. And colleague Nadj is a bit of a subject here, and we don't think there's much room for manoeuvre in this document, but what you might need to talk about is the question of defining, defining penalties. So we think it's not the same, so I can't be in the same way, even though a range of penalties is proposed, we think that maybe in a different way we should define penalties in the event of violations of these provisions. One EU Member State has defined the penalty of up to 1% of the traffic that the Internet-mediated service provider has achieved from the administration on-line platform in the previous financial year. So, that percentage from our perspective is too low, but we should consider since we're talking about huge companies, we're talking about Amazon, we're talking about Google, so these are companies that our fine up to 50,000 kuna not to feel, but they're going to ask if I can give you anything else that we have for coffee or for kewapes this, I think that's really funny. If we want to impose any sanctions on intermediaries, then I think those sanctions should be something meaningful. Of course, the penalties provided for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are, which are assumed to be from this system of ours, much more appropriate of course. However, if we are talking about large internet platforms that intervene, then we think that we should define them not in absolute but in this relative amount, and then that's something that I might hope the Proposer will consider. We also think that the issue of inspection surveillance is something that we here as a legislative authority may not have much to say at least at this point because it is a matter of the executive authority, but I say what we think would be worth considering is a very serious issue of these penalties and how to define them. In particular, according to intermediaries, because, ultimately, both in the EU and in the European Parliament, a lot of discussion in its previous meeting was given to how to control exactly these, such large on-line platforms because they, in some cases and in some cases have bigger muscles than some Member States. So here's what I'm saying if we're prescribing penalties, then there should be something that makes sense in that context. So much for our club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5293	Thank you very much. Let's let another actually individual debate have Mrs. Danica Baricevic, please. Then after that, we'll have a break by 15 and 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5294	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear fellow MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. Therefore, the proposal for a law implementing the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of online media services in front of us gives us the opportunity to implement the rules that we will ensure that all users of internet intervention in the supply of their goods and services receive quality access to markets and trade opportunities, to enjoy appropriate transparency and justice and to have the possibility of effective legal protection. It is equally important that the regulation of these services improves consumers' well-being. Companies are getting new access to new markets, and consumers are getting an increase in the choice of goods and services. Nearly half of small and medium-sized enterprises, according to a Eurobarometer survey, have said that internet markets are used to sell their products and services, and consumers have well accepted online media services. On the other hand, all of this carries the challenges that need to be addressed in order to ensure legal certainty, as well as a sustainable and predictable business environment. The impact assessment of safety and a sustainable and predictable business environment, i.e. implemented by the European Commission, has shown that almost 50% of European companies operating on internet platforms are actually facing problems. This legislative initiative is essential in particular for the protection of micro- and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the creation of a legislative framework guaranteeing fair and efficient competition. Internet-mediated services can be crucial to the business success of companies using such services to reach the consumer. In order to take advantage of all the advantages of the Internet platform economy, it is important that businesses can rely on the online media services they enter into these trade relations. Platforms and search engines, therefore, are important channels through which European businesses reach their customers, but must ensure that they do not abuse their powers and thus harm their business users. Internet platform service providers often have greater negotiating power, which in practice allows them to act unilaterally in a way that can be unfair and harmful to the legitimate interests of their business users and the indirect consumer in the Union. This Regulation regulates such potential difficulties in the economy of internet platforms, clear transparency rules are introduced and an effective dispute resolution system is established. Therefore, increasing transparency means that Internet service providers must ensure that their conditions for professional users are easily understood and accessible. This includes, inter alia, the obligation to explain in advance possible reasons for limiting, suspending or abolishing their services. In addition, Internet platform providers must draw up and publish general policies on which data produced through their services can be accessed, who can access them and under what conditions in the way they deal with their own products and services compared to those provided by their professional users, in which way they apply contractual provisions to require the most favourable supply or price of products and services offered by their professional users. Internet intervention services and internet search engines must, among other things, establish general criteria to determine how products and services are ranked in search results. The implementation of the regulation also means more effective dispute resolution, in many cases so far there have been no accessible and effective internal system of complaint resolution. So, I'm giving full support. this legislative framework because it wants to be guaranteed fair and efficient [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Competition for the security and transparency of all future companies and for a more efficient economy. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5295	Thank you, thank you. Continuing at 15:30. Thank you. The session was interrupted at 14.48 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5296	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.28 HOURS]] At the time of the global pandemic of the new Coronal Virus, there was a sudden increase in the use of internet platforms by large and small companies, making it the main place of business in many sectors, from application development, transport, catering, retailing to professional services. Realising the importance of regulating this area, in particular from the aspect of the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies as the first users of Internet-mediated services, the European Parliament and the Council adopted in June last year a regulation on promoting justice and transparency for business users of Internet-mediated services. This legislative proposal shall ensure that the regulation in question is implemented, or the EU-level law as regards the provision of Internet-mediated services. The importance of this segment of business is reflected in the fact that the EU has regulated that area through a regulation rather than by a directive, thus ensuring its uniform application on the territory of the EU as a whole. Such application of common rules throughout the EU is finalised and derogations between Member States are avoided and legal certainty is guaranteed and better functioning of the internal market is ensured. It is also important to stress that it applies only to the contract does not apply between platforms and companies or that it does not refer to laws governing the issue of mutual relations between companies. It is known that internet search engines and platforms are responsible for the vast majority of internet traffic by small and medium-sized companies, however, internet platforms can sometimes use unfair commercial practices because of their intermediation role, which may, however, cause significant economic damage to companies using their services. According to the European Commission, almost 46 business users have faced problems with the work of such platforms. The relevant regulation that we implement through today's bill in national legislation is the first attempt in the world to regulate the area of economy and internet platforms legally and to establish a fair eco-system that will contribute to a more innovative and more concrete digital EU market and ultimately lead to an increase in the number of jobs. Better regulation should encourage companies to expand their business through the use of internet platforms. Other important segments covered by this legislative proposal or regulation are positive effects and consumers. As a result of the increase in trust and legal certainty in the Internet business environment, the number of companies to be used online platforms will be increased, and this will undoubtedly increase the choice and range of services for consumers. This legislative proposal or implementation of this Regulation will ensure that internet intervention platforms have to enable their operating conditions to be easily accessible or more transparent. Furthermore, platforms are required to publicly publish the main parameters on the basis of which the ranking of business users in search results is determined. In relation to legal protection mechanisms, this legislative proposal obliges platforms to establish an effective and rapid internal system of settlement of complaints and to submit once a year a report on its effectiveness and also to encourage the establishment of specialised peace-making bodies to settle disputes and reach agreements with specific entities regarding the conclusion of extrajudicial agreements, which is certainly a better and more effective principle than a regular trial. Finally, there were also words on the Committee on Economy today, where we discussed this more widely, and I hope that something more detailed will be asked about it. Finally, it is a proposal which began its life course 4 years ago when the Commission started extensive consultation to define the problems of the Internet platforms or the functioning of the EU internal market. I am sure that business users or companies support legislative action in order to ensure the possibility of effective legal protection and greater transparency of practice and the determination of order, the provisions on price parity and transparency in the exclusion of products from the offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5297	Thank you. The last individual debate, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5298	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor, To say that this regulation is not good would be completely wrong, this regulation is something in which Europe is trying to regulate relations at EU level and allows Member States to further improve these relations. It has been observed that it is happening in the business world and this regulation is a de facto answer to that. What is the question that needs to be asked here is whether this law that we adopt de facto implement this regulation did everything we could to make this regulation or to make business in Croatia more transparent, which is better for both the benefit and on the one hand of those who offer a service and those who receive it. What I have to say is that when you look at the arrangement in this country, we kind of cough with that Internet for the rest of the EU, and that's something that actually makes it harder for our business entities to do business, and it teaches citizens more slowly how to serve the Internet better, I say "serving," then I don't think they're looking for something on the Internet, but they're using the Internet for business purposes. Here the aim of this is to create a good environment, a good environment in the EU means a good environment in all EU countries of which one is a member and Croatia. What should be said here, that Croatia also has other problems in online business, today we are something, I don't know, I said something about it and on the Committee on Economy itself, so I'm going to try to introduce you all once again to what I see as a problem faced by drunk entrepreneurs. One is the VAT rate that when our entrepreneur offers something via the Internet, which is also offered by some entrepreneur from the Czech Republic, and we know that there is a relatively small margin on online business, and the VAT rate itself differs by 5% to 8%, then it turns out that our entrepreneur is uncompetitive. This cannot be solved by this law, but I call on the Government to approach the full resolution of the environment of business on the Internet, which is partly problematic with us. Then we have the fact that who controls how many imports to Croatia because the law says after more than 10 000 euro of value is imported to Croatia, that the one who exported it to Croatia should then enter the VAT system of the Republic of Croatia. It's hard for someone to control or not control, which makes our entrepreneurs uncompetitive again. And then there's another item that the Americans have long understood and that's the post office. They did not have a postal oath there because they were already aware that what someone sent to someone must come quickly and as it was sent to the destination. Now the question is how many of our Croatian mail, it is still a state-owned company, answered the needs of time, when we are witnessing that today many of our mail entrepreneurs who have achieved de facto online business must send from Slovenia. What happens is that we are not able to organise Croatian mail, that at the same price it sends the same product to the same address as the Slovenian post office? Here's how much, I say, we need to support this regulation, this regulation makes the system within the EU better, but I think that as a state, we need to first edit, or parallelly with this, our environment and our legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-09-0.u5299	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow, reporting on the amendments. Affidavit, excuse me. Have a good day. Session interrupted at 15.40 hours And we're going, we're going to take a stand, the first is announced by the distinguished representative Marin Miletic. Marin Miletic, come in.
