ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9653	Dear colleagues and colleagues, just a little fellow Petrov. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 4th session with 8 new points. I assume you're looking for a break on that? ... Well, let's just sort out the rest of the agenda, then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227... My colleagues, please. Please. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is point 1 of the supplement submitted. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families with a final proposal for a law. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There are no rules of procedure of written objections at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda, i.e. all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 4th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9743	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Radolovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9744	Dear Vice President, thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. In previous days, we have heard much about the difficult state and working conditions, as well as the spatial capacities in homes for older and powerless persons caused especially by the pandemic Covid-19 virus. However, in addition to the above problems, it was somehow lost under the radar that waiting lists in homes for older and powerless persons throughout Croatia are still a burning topic. For example, in the Pulski dom for elderly and powerless persons “Alfredo Štiglic”, watch out for the double room is waiting 10 years, 10.g. The waiting list has 2,600 people. Of course, it is also understandable because many families have no alternative because of their daily obligations, balances between their own business and parental obligations, and are forced to place older members of their family in such homes. However, for many there are 2,000 kuna pensions the average, and somewhere in some parts of Croatia and smaller, only accommodation in a private home whose average is about 6,000 kuna per month is a distant dream. Why am I saying all this? I speak for this reason that Istria County 2019. However, it decides to address this problem by means of a financing and credit co-operation agreement where they decide to raise loans of almost or not almost but 42 million kuna, but everything goes to property legal relations. I will remind therefore, except that they have taken up the loan, it is unanimously supported by HDZ representatives in the City Council of Pula and the Assembly of the Istrian County, so the withdrawal of a 40 million kuna loan to finally deprive the waiting lists that are now 10.g. This problem arises because the owner of the home, as well as the other 30 real estates throughout Croatia HZMO except for the homes in the City of Zagreb that were transferred by Mr Bandić and except for the homes in Knin which they also donated to the city of Knin. This HZMO, or Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, refutes the SDP bill which he referred to in the procedure to transfer property over the homes of the pensioners and says that the institution under the right to own, use, use and make use of the same property, home of the pensioners is to do, beware, as it will and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to have different relations with the users of the facilities of the pensioners' homes instead of giving it to such use. Thus, Prime Minister Plenkovic claims on 14 November 2019. After the SDP parliamentary procedure which I referred to the bill was passed, just to address this problem. At the same time, of course, the Istrian County is giving up the project, so the proposal to reconstruct and upgrade the deficits in Pula behind the local budget, and therefore giving up, waiting lists are inescapably growing. However, we have a situation from a month ago when, as if we were in some poor performance of "Alice in a wonder country", our prime minister obviously Plenkovic and Mr. Aladrovic suffer from a kind of syncope, since in the government a month ago, at the proposal of Minister Aladrovic, the prime minister supported a proposal that, therefore, all homes for older and powerless persons are now given without compensation to local and regional units, which, however, I support and absolutely inevitable, should have done so much earlier when we proposed it a year ago. But what happened now? I hope both the prime minister and the resolute minister are aware of what they've done. In this year, a pandemic occurred, all of these projects and home building reconstructions were removed from the local budget, removed, credit debt consent was removed and they will not be realised for long, long years. The prime minister justified that he planned to use EU funds for HZMO-owned buildings a year ago. I am glad that before the presentation, he had a colleague named Hrelja who himself said that it was not possible in the operational programmes, so it is knowingly misleading to the public and did not allow the list of waiting in homes for older and powerless throughout Croatia to be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9807	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Green-Left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Rada Boric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9808	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia presented his report and repeatedly praised the updates of our courts. The updates of how they solve cases. A few days ago, the Supreme Court confirmed the condemnation of a serious crime against sexual freedom of domestic violence and threats. The verdict rejected complaints by the parties and confirmed the first-degree ruling of the County Court in Varazdin. It has thus become a powerful verdict that found the defendant guilty of a serious crime as they state against sexual freedom of domestic violence and threats. He was sentenced, imagine, to a unique prison sentence of one year and two months, and the sentence was also spent in an investigative prison. According to the Supreme Court, the ease of circumstances is seen as the present indemnity, the impaired health condition, and the health condition of diabetes is listed as the ulcer of the right foot. In this case, the victim, besides rape and threats, threats to daily violence and economic violence, which, due to his poor mental state and attempted suicide and was hospitalized, was not respected. I quote the Supreme Court as saying: “This measure of punishment is appropriate to the severity and circumstances of the crimes committed and the person charged. Such punishment will achieve the purpose of punishment and express... “I quote ”... by responding to the reproach of society according to such criminal acts. Other citizens will also be warned to stay away from similar procedures." So rape is a similar procedure. It's very interesting, until an emergency, justice is gone somewhere. I wonder if in a new case the Supreme Court of Rapists of a 14-year-old girl will do the same. who remained pregnant and was forced to make an abortion out of the same rapist who received a year and 10 months sentence and was reduced to 6 months from 3.g. trials and no approaches to the victims, will the Supreme Court also confirm this decision? What concerns us right now is the way we replaced the so-called. Adjudication, and we know what accumulated cases look like, so they've updated something over the last 2 years, are we really going to update things in a way that the Supreme Court and its decisions will, first of all, just confirm the decisions of the county courts or will the Supreme Court write these arguments that are completely inappropriate and unsuitable to all future abusers and rapists? What is the proper course of society toward such criminal acts? What does it mean to warn other citizens to stay away from similar procedures, why would they stay away from similar procedures, why would they stay away from serious crimes if they were given years and 10 months for serious crimes?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9897	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is our break, so we will proceed with the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and, first of all, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9898	Thank you, dear vice president of the assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. By listing Facebook sites, I came up with a publication from the "Glas Entrepreneurship" group, where one of the members of the group wrote: "New loans, incentives and other measures to help entrepreneurs, the economy and to preserve jobs are announced. In short, our situation and experience so far with support, measures and loans related to the company that deals, more specifically, at that time engaged in the catering segment, our business is next. After we closed the facilities by order of the government in accordance with the measures adopted, we submitted a request for support for the preservation of jobs, as well as for the liquidity loan. We didn't, nor today do we have any open obligations to anyone without a day's blockade on the account of the company's draft. Our support was paid for the first three months with a delay in our last payment of almost three months. All that time, we paid the employees, our request for a second round of measures was accepted, but was subsequently rejected because we had recorded income growth. In fact, while waiting for the payment of the measures, we dared to make a profit for the salaries of the employees, we provided a tabular picture of the revenue from which it was apparent that in the catering segment total income fell and greater than 80% compared to the same period last year. During that period, we wait for the payment of the HAMAG covid loan which is already approved or positively assessed, but has no funds to pay. In addition to the request for a loan, we indicate that part of the funds is intended for the settlement of the contribution if there is no write-off and the rest for the preservation of liquidity. The request was received in HAMAG on 6 April, on 7 October, we were blocked due to the debt due to contributions for the period during which we expected the payment of the support, which was rejected after waiting for more than 60 days. Since 6 November, 7 months later, after waiting for the payment of the credit for which we meet all the conditions, the HAMAG has been denied due to 30 days of blockade. The account was blocked by the order of the tax administration for the amount of contributions from which we were to be released. So much for intentions and measures. If our case is not the only one, and somehow we believe that we are not alone, we ask you to contact us because we are considering the possibility of a lawsuit, and we are also willing to provide concrete information to prove that the government has played us and to avoid such a situation in the future. Thank you and good luck to everyone. This announcement is just one experience I believe is not an exception but a rule. This example is a picture and opportunity of government and state institutions' relations with entrepreneurs and businessmen in Croatia. This is evidence of disorganization and unpreparedness for the second wave of covid and all the problems that came with him. Every day we witness and announcements and media inscriptions in which statesmen and officials celebrate and praise the government's incentives, announce billions of kunas of help and favourable loans and daily assure us that everything is fine, that everything is going according to plan and that everything will be fine. And then on the other hand, we have the opportunity to hear these experiences with their rescue incentives and relief measures. With this kind of business, we can expect to leave the crisis in 2033, not as Minister Maric announced in 2023. For this speaker, I will repeat how many times it will take to realize once and for all that only entrepreneurs in Croatia can improve the standard of living of Croatian citizens by their uninterrupted business. You can't do that because you don't create. Your task is to provide entrepreneurs with a legal framework for their work and enable them to advance in their business. Do not slow them down, do not belittle them, do not make business difficult for them, help them to create, be at their service because it is your task, to serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to rule them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9972	The next Club of Representatives is that of the HDZ, HDZ, on behalf of which the respected representative Radoje Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9973	Honorable co-chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Last week was 25 years old. of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. We all know the Dayton Agreement preceded the signing of a Washington agreement that ended the war between Croats and Bosniaks. Although these two agreements did not address all issues related to the position of Croats to the best extent, taking into account international circumstances, taking into account the interests of the other two nations but taking into account the interests of the entire Croatian people in BiH, the Croats accepted these agreements. We accepted these agreements because they essentially guaranteed the equality of the Croatian people, because we accepted this agreement because we believed that they would respect, that other signatories of these agreements would be committed to the implementation of these agreements, that they would work committedly to stabilising opportunities in BiH, so that BiH would be a democratic free state involved in Euro-Atlantic integration, a country of 3 equal constituent peoples. Unfortunately, from Dayton to today, it's denied us. In fact, since 2000. The intensive comprehensive efforts of the good part of the Bosniak political summit to take away equality in BiH from Croats, to make them both political and economic marginalised, and to turn the Federation into a Bosniak entity. Last time here at the assembly, I spoke of what it meant to impose amendments to the Federation of BiH constitution concerning the House of Peoples, how through these imposed amendments only by changing the number of envoys in the House of Peoples, by choosing the envoys in the House of Peoples and by making it possible for the people's home to choose without a single vote of Croatian envoys the full legislative and executive power of the Federation. Similarly, these amendments have affected both the legislative authority and the executive and the court. Thus, in the court's power today, Croats have a minimal impact, and how much for a single Bosniak and political summit it is important to demonstrate the fact by 2000. To date, no judge has been elected by the Federation of BiH constitutional court who supported Croatian political parties. What these amendments meant for the Federation of BiH government are the following examples. In fact, the original constitution defined that a third of the ministers in the Federation of BiH government must be representatives of the Croatian people, that each minister has a deputy who is from another people, and that a third of the envoys in the Federation of BiH government can also challenge... All of this, unfortunately, has been abolished by an amendment imposed, and this has in practice allowed Bosniak ministers to revote Croats and Croatian ministers to have less and less influence. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did that mean in practice for the everyday lives of the people of the Federation? I'll give you two examples. In fact, coal mines in the Federation of BiH employ a large number of people, for years create huge losses and all these mines are located in areas where Bosniaks are the majority and then the government of the Federation of BiH once makes its decision to pass through parliament to resuscitate these mines and target hundreds of millions of euros exclusively in those areas. Or example no. 2., the distribution of VAT revenues in the Federation of BiH is primarily based on the number of residents who have certain municipalities and counties. And it happens that for years, the Federal Bureau of Statistics has misjudged the number of inhabitants in the majority Croatian municipalities and counties and thus cut off the municipalities and counties by hundreds of millions of euro. Similar examples could list countless more, but because of this time here today I cannot. Today, I would just like to repeat once again that Croats in BiH are truly interested in BiH, the state of independence, democracy, the country of 3 equal constituent nations, BiH involved in Euro-Atlantic integration, that we have shown for BiH as an independent state in the 1992 referendum. by mass exiting and supporting such BiH, that we have shown for BiH because we were the first to stand in BiH's defence, but Croats are also for their equal position in BiH, and we have shown this in the imposed war since '92. until '95. when, despite the great sacrifices, we managed to preserve most of our territory and most of our people. That we're equal to each other shows these 20 years. intense political struggles for your equality. And in the end, once again I just want to say one thing, we're not asking anyone to do anything, we're asking only to respect what international contracts guarantee and what's before the age of 25. Signed in Dayton and Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u9974	Thank you. That's what we're done with today's work. We will continue to work on Tuesday 8 December at 9:30 and the first item will be: The Implementation Report, the first presentation of the position of course, and then the Report on the implementation of the Croatian People's Declaration in BiH for 2019. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 14.04 p.m. The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10031	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. As a representative coming from the 3rd constituency today, I will tell you something about a small province here after these speakers, about Krapina-Zagorje County or popularly called Zagorje. It is not said for nothing "no Zagorje little" in an old song and it is really not little, even as its potential for development is extremely great. Of course, there are some problems to be considered first, and then from these problems, through sound thinking and hard work to find and policies, and of course entrepreneurial ventures that will naturally enable Zagorje and Zagorci and Zagorka to have a better and better life. Zagorje is a region with a very significant history, it doesn't need to talk much about it, we all went through the first classes of elementary schools and taught about Matija Gupac, and then later we learned about Ljudevit Gaja, so we learned about when and how a Krapina man lived. So, Zagorje really has a great and rich wonderful history that needs to be used in a quality way. When we look at the practices of countries in the environment or in short and clear of all reasonable countries, how well and quality they use their traditions and their historical persons for the development of tourism, it is clear that there is currently no good and informed policy here. Currently, the house of Ljudevita Gaja located in the center of Krapina is located in an extremely destructive state, the house of the doctor, the late Dr. Franjo Tudjman also has the potential for turning into a serious tourist complex, and we must not ignore the tourist capacity of Kumrovec or a little sensitive political issue, but I suppose politics should not close our eyes to the fact that such a complex in Kumrovec can seriously contribute to a good condition or bring profits to the entire county. Unfortunately, as a victim of the HDZ and SDP party duopol, Zagorje has been stagnating for decades and could develop in several extremely simple ways. As a region that has very many thermal sources and well-known, popularly called Zagorje spas, we have 100-thousand family agricultural economies, our OPGs, which of course have major problems with the placement of their products. So why don't we, ladies and gentlemen, help these people and put it into a good project where our OPGs will supply Croatian cuisines and restaurants or in this case of Zagorje hotels, Zagorje spas, Zagorje tourism is something that can really be worked on and Zagorje has great potentials for it. We should, of course, attract a clean industry. Zagorje must remain intact as far as its ecology is concerned, we must guard the banks of Zagorje, we must work for them and try to change certain and investment laws to attract a clean industry, although, of course, most of the regions that are near the border, and in Croatia they are almost everything, and Zagorje suffers from the problems of nursing households, the eviction of young labour forces, especially in Zagorci, close to and spatially close to Slovenia and Austria, and of course to other countries. As far as healthcare in Zagorje is concerned, except, of course, this through tourism, our local health homes are poorly equipped, suffering from the lack of professional labour. Zabok General Hospital is in trouble because of party personnel everywhere. We don't have a strategy for the development of gastronomic tourism, and we all know very well that Zagorje can go and eat well and eat. Many international and domestic awards for Zagorje winemakers prove that there are no more bad drops in Zagorje. Boris Drenskog's wine at the most famous international and influential and magazine and Decantera fair has been given the highest recognitions for years. So Zagorje has a chance and needs a chance. The job of all of us is to design good and quality policies so that Zagorje not only stops being a little bit but also becomes a large, region of happy and happy people who do what we say on our own grant. Therefore, of course, the Homeland Movement will now prepare an excellent programme, a plan for Zagorje with which we will clearly go before our voters to the local elections in May and tell them the Homeland Movement has a solution and I will end up with the old rat "the rebellion lasts". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10089	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Bozo Petrov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10090	Honorable MPs and MPs, dear citizens. How can we read from social media, the government will launch a procedure for the adoption of a new Law on Referendums and Referendum Initiatives in the coming period, and will in future regulate referendum procedures. We believe that this referendum law is extremely important because it regulates the right for people in Croatia to decide on important issues for the Republic of Croatia. They decide that in a direct way, they don't need a mediator. The experiences that we have seen so far about referendums and referendum initiatives were not good, and so it would be very necessary for the process that follows not to be contrived, to be clear. MOST has always advocated citizens' rights to make direct decisions in referendums, without directly deciding what issues are important to them, and we will continue to advocate that. And in this sense as a constructive political option, as part of a public debate, we will propose that the new legal rules in this referendum law be modern, are in line with the time we live in because we live in a digital era. And that is why we are going to propose that this new law regulates the possibility of citizens being able to declare themselves electronically in referendums and referendum initiatives, we will primarily ask that this law regulates the possibility of electronic signing for referendums and referendum initiatives, and I think there is nothing to be disputed about. We have a system of e-citizens today that allows us to do exactly this and that will speed up the process, make it easier, faster, the authenticity of the signature, will reduce the costs of implementing the referendum initiatives. For all those who wish to launch the referendum initiatives, there will be no need for 1,000 stands afterwards. I think we should all pursue this particular goal. The e-referendum should not be an obstacle for the very reason that it is a guarantee, the electronic collection of signatures is a guarantee of the security of these signatures, there is no safer signature than through the E-Citizen system. You know who signed it, no dead, no doubles, you know who signed it, you know when he signed it. For us, the aim and purpose of the law must be to facilitate the referendum and the referendum procedures, not to make them difficult, and that is what the Most will advocate, which the Most will insist on, on these rules we will insist on. I think that today we have all the tools in our hand to facilitate people's referendum, to show people that we care about them and their opinions because they have the right in a direct way to decide on all important issues in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10114	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10115	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to conclude this week with some optimistic news. In fact, this morning at 8:30, I had a meeting with the long-awaited meeting with the Minister of Regional Development and European Funds, ma'am. Natasha Tramišak. You assume this is on the subject already since 2017. and HSU and I personally deal, and this is the installation of elevators into multi-story residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia with European money. We were doing a lot of action as far as this is concerned and behind us was the last term in which something could be done, but it didn't want to change the operational programme because the possibility existed, and that means that only the funds from where they weren't used could have been used. But it's not worth crying about, it's not worth crying about, it's my long-term political experience, it's about trying to motivate all the factors in the political system of the Republic of Croatia to do it for the citizens because the citizens will appreciate it. And so was today's meeting, very correct, very professional, and from which it can be read that the ministry's professional services will work to open up two possibilities. The first is the possibility of installing a multi-story residential building through the energy reconstruction of buildings, which has been the only option so far and as a horizontal measure is to allow space to be left to be arranged individually for the installation of elevators into multi-story residential buildings, with the motivation of making it easier for our citizens to have access to the apartment, greater mobility of citizens, greater efficiency of social and all service services, greater possibility of social protection for our citizens who, who have this problem, but it is not only for older citizens, it is also a big thing for young families, families with small children living in such buildings. So I have spoken very optimisticly on this subject many times, and in some ways I have experienced criticism because I have raised false hopes among the citizens. I don't want to do it this time, because I can't promise anything on behalf of the ministry except to say that with a dose of optimism or from this conversation, the conversation was dominated by optimism and the practical belief that the ministry, the ministry, will fight for it, and I want to convey that dose to optimism, tell the citizens that perhaps in this pre-good time there's one ray of hope, there's one light at the end of the tunnel that maybe it could start working from somewhere else in the next half of the year. What we need to say is that we don't need to be euphoric and thinking, but now we're going to solve all 9000 possible entrances with elevators or 16,000 potential entrances that we have in the Republic because that's what we're dealing with, and we know all about it, that this power will be solved immediately. I would be delighted to install 500 lifts in the first year, in the second thousand and every year 1000, for us to train our capacities and contracts and controls, from the ministry to the local community and projectors and those involved in building and installing elevators and repairers to gather and yes, and to be active. I invite them as well as all residents' associations to be active, not to work pressure, but to motivate the ministry to move on with this, with this project that is very important to our citizens, which 40,000 certainly have trapped in their living space. Finally, one project that has been praised by the European Commission, which is a project outside the institutional care of the elderly, which has hired more employable groups, primarily women over 50 years, the "Wish" programme goes on, goes on in the next financial period, and that is, in any case, to welcome, we hold thumbs and the ministry and the minister to succeed in these optimistic intentions for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10164	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u10165	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. So for a change without calling anyone, without attacking, I want to ask the question, did we open Pandora's box today at the vote? Namely, our Marijana Puljak has been at her home for some time on sick leave since she has a wounded leg, but this situation does not give her the right to participate in the debates and to use the video link system and cannot be included in the vote. She specifically asked the authorities in HS about the circumstances and received an answer to that question. 293. The Rules of Procedure which prescribes the possibility to participate in the debate through a video link shall not apply to it. Namely, this situation applies exclusively to persons who are covered by the prevention of the spread of coronary infections. We should not take the Rules of Procedure lightly, as we should not take any other rules lightly. The reason I got involved in politics is because I'm on a daily basis and as a lawyer and as an ordinary citizen, I've seen that we're not the same country, there's always rules for privileged and rules for everyone else. Privileges and not privileged Croatia, this is our biggest problem. Well, have we raised this privileged and unprivileged group today to a completely different level by questioning the constitutionality and legality of the voting process or by opening up a space for various manipulations? In fact, among my fellow MPs, I asked if I heard something wrong. Everyone says your colleague, Mr. Frankovic, said twice in a row that his covid test was negative. My question is, how do you determine the symptoms of covid and determine self-insulation in case the tests are negative twice in a row? And are there really two categories of self-insulation, preventive self-insulation that they have the right to and all of our other citizens? And does this mean, what we've witnessed today, that any of us can think of, and measure the temperature, inform the professional service HS and thus participate in the vote? I'm most concerned that you HDZs will do this when you've accepted the one you need to maintain the parliamentary majority? I repeat, this time I'm not accusing, this time I'm not attacking, this time I'm just checking because I want to especially on the day that we passed one terrible law, one law where you're going to kick your boot again with a restrictive boot to the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and yours protected as it was recently in Vukovar when you were intoxicated by a state inventory, you're going to spare every sentence by calling for the privileged position you have in the state and society. I wouldn't want that to happen. I would also not like it to happen that in the application and implementation of this Rules of Procedure, and today this is just one perhaps dramatic example, from replicas, from the violations of the Rules of Procedure and a whole series of other situations we have seen that something with this Rules of Procedure is seriously wrong, at least not when we are calling upon his rules from opposition. I call on the responsible especially the presidents of HS to take care of these circumstances because with asking questions, we in the opposition will not stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12127	We are now going to the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Dari Zurovec's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Davor Nadi. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to file reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12128	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 10th session held on 3 December 2020 the written request of Representative Dario Zurovec of 27 November 2020, which was the basis of the report by the President of HS. 14. The Law on election of MPs in HS shall put its mandate in line with the date of 30 November 2020. Dario Zurovec was elected representative of the 10th Assembly of HS as a candidate on the Party's list with Name and Surname, Smart and Focus in the 7th Original Unit and Focus in accordance with Article. No 42st century 3. Law on election of MPs in HS designated Davor Naj as deputy representative. The Commission found that the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Dari Zurovec were met by law and the commencement of the term of office of representative Dario Zurovec as well as the conditions for the conduct of his deputy, Davor Naji. In accordance with the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, 14th, 11th and 42nd centuries 3. The law on election of MPs in HS unanimously with 6 votes to propose an HS decision on the start of a stay of MP Dari Zurovec's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Davor Naji. In accordance with the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, 14th, 11th and 42nd centuries 3. The law on election of MPs in HS unanimously with 6 votes to propose an HS decision on the start of the term of office of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 30 November 2020, begin the rest of the parliamentary term of Daria Zurovca, Davor Find the representative's post as deputy representative in accordance with Article. 9th century 2. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall take effect when the Assembly has decided to lay down legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12129	Thank you, colleague Jankovics. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate, so we're going to vote on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to open the term of office of representative Dario Zurovec and the start of acting as deputy representative of Davor Naji. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath of counsel. First I will read the text of the oath, and then the representative will say the word I swear. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work with the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Agent Davor, find him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12130	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12131	Congratulations, dear colleague, and I wish you a great deal of success in your work. My colleagues and colleagues, this is what we've come to the end of. [[Applause.]] What's the form of a colleague of the bush?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12132	So, since it is the MIP report, you promised more than a month ago that parliamentary clubs would consult on my request to remove my immunity so that Prime Minister Plenkovic could sue me for the heavy accusations I made about the fraud in our embassies. I'm asking him to get rid of it and I'm asking for it, and Mr. Bacic has agreed with it and the HDZ Club to remove my immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12133	He's a friend of Grumo's. So, you will not be left without immunity because of the demands of Prime Minister Plenkovic, but because of the MP, former counterpart Ostojic, and do not make false statements. because you were not sued by Prime Minister Plenkovic but by former Representative Ostojic. [[I'm not telling the truth, I'm asking for my immunity.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12134	So I invite him, here comes Prime Minister Plenkovic again, If I put out anything incorrect, to sue me, then let the man get the chance and this... [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u12135	He's not, he's got, he's got, he's got better things to do. Okay, we'll take the next, next, please, clubs to agree and make a final decision on removing the immunity of colleagues to Grmoji. [[No, he's got nothing better to do.]] Thank you very much. And now, I will only tell you about next week before we move on to free speech. We will also be working from Tuesday, we will begin classically, by taking a position, after which we will have a debate on the report on the implementation of the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH for 2019 and afterwards on the proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission. On Wednesday, we would deal with laws relating to local elections, so we would conduct a united debate and then have a proposal for a conclusion on the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the Civil Protection Staff. This is a proposal, the proposal is a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. On Thursday, the first item would be the National Strategic Framework against Cancer by 2030. We will see more, we will fill with some points Thursday, as well as Friday, so in those two days we will still consult now, but mostly, we will start working on Tuesday and start with this Report on the implementation of the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH for 2019. Thank you all. Now it's a 10-minute break, so it continues with free speeches. It's 13, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19253	Here, we are now going to the following statement on amendments to: - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation 2019/1150 of the EU on promoting justice and transparency for business users of services and internet intervention, second reading, P.Z. No. Nine. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. I'd like a representative of the motionary, the esteemed Secretary of State, Mary Shiljeg, to be made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Parliamentarians and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. In this case, it is not about the most serious violations of the article. The 33rd century is the 7th century. Violent law. In particular, compliance with the Article shall be highlighted. 33. Infringement law with which this final draft of the law is fully in line, with which it was agreed on two occasions by the competent Ministry of Justice and Administration. The percentage determination of the fine of 2% would be subject to the previous long-term determination of the company’s financial status, and the amount of 2% would be either often or hard to determine, and in most cases unobstructed, which would call into question the fairness of the conduct. Namely, the EU Regulations and Directives which are transposed directly apply to national legislation and must be aligned primarily with the texts of the Regulations and Directives. In the case of criminal or criminal sanctions, they must comply with national and infringement laws, in this case with the Criminal Law, with which this final proposal for a law is fully in line. Therefore, since it is not the most serious infringements of the Article. The 33rd century is the 7th century. In this case, the percentage determination of the fines of 2% of the total income is not applicable, and the proposed infringements of fines are objectively and market-balanced amounts of penalties for potential infringements of the law, i.e. Internet business providers. Based on the above-mentioned proposal to break in, reject the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19255	There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19256	With this amendment, we have therefore proposed that the amount of fines should be linked to revenues obtained from online business services. In fact, we believe that the penalties provided for can be too severe, so to speak, for small companies, and for large-scale online-mediated companies, which will not be an obstacle to continue to violate the directive in question. In order to avoid the situation that a company that has just started to operate, therefore comes into a situation to pay huge amounts and can be punished in relation to income from last year's large sum, the charge would therefore be disastrous for them. With this amendment we wanted to avoid it, in any case it is related to, the percentage amount would certainly be better for us and we will ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19257	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19258	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/1150/EU on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of Internet-mediated services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. Nine. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, which the government's representative did not accept during the amendment's statement, so we must vote on the amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs, 124 for, 2 abstentions and thus passed the Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/1150/EU on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of Internet intervention services. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the referral of flight security escorts, second reading, P.Z. No. 48, The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs, 122 for, 5 abstentions, have voted, and thus the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the referral of flight security escorts has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19848	We are now going to declare the amendment to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 55. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19849	Thank you very much. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Art. The 33rd law is accepted since it is nomotechnical.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19850	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19851	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 55. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the statements on amendments, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Here's my colleague Grumo's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19852	Your Honor. You've hurt Rules of Procedure 238. Namely, since there's no part of the MPs, they're all of us, so we've all stopped at this one that it's easier for people from the assembly to count votes, no one in this room swears, I don't know what's happening to you, no one swears to the Honorable President, I don't know what's happening to you, you obviously have some problems, you hear something that's not happening, you see when someone's laughing under a mask, I don't know what kind of abilities you've developed in the meantime. [[Invader: Cursing, cursing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19853	Comrade Grmoi, my colleague Grmoi, thank you very much for your intervention. The curse was clear, the curse was clear, not just me, but the others sitting here in the main assembly. [[No one swears.]] You're getting a warning. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19854	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic, I was sitting in this room, and indeed, as my colleague said, they moved us because we were a little bit in that room, so I apologize because there was a little bit of an increase, but there was no swearing, I'm telling you, even if it was for the sake of my colleagues they wouldn't swear because I was there in the room with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u19855	Comrade Miletić, my colleague Miletić, stay here. I wouldn't say someone was cursing without hearing it, and probably other colleagues and colleagues sitting here. I'm not saying it's you, I don't know who it is, but please, I'm asking you one more time for the Croatian public and for the colleagues who are here. that you may be as careful as the rest of them. [[I'll watch my turn, she'll be fine.]] And no matter what you're in that hall in less space than these here to behave the same way as your colleagues and colleagues sitting here. [[We're focused.]] Thank you very much. [[We're focused, we'll be careful, thanks.]] I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 103 MPs and MPs, 78 for, 16 abstentions and 36 against, have voted against and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20047	We are now going to declare the amendment to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, second reading, P.Z. No. 56. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-left bloc's Green-left Club of Representatives and representative Katarina Peovic. Let's go club green-left block representatives first. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20048	Thank you very much. Amendment to Art. 4. Green-left block club is not accepted. The temporary tax relief for reinvested profits, as you know, was abolished in 2016 when tax rates on profits were also reduced from 20 to 18 or 12%, and above all because, as the word itself says, a temporary tax relief because after it would potentially work to reduce the base capital must be paid tax. At the same time, however, the government proposed, the HS also passed an Investment Encouragement Act, which encourages investment and investment. I would like to remind you that this law also provides for the possibility of exempting tax on profits for as many as 10 years, as well as contributions to wages. As regards the promotion of R & D investment, it would continue through the new State Support Act on R & D policies adopted in 2018. Furthermore, as the amendment deletes the provisions governing tax rates, it is not clear in order to tax profits that have not been reinvested. It is also unclear how the profit paid in case the payment is made would be included in the revenue. In addition to the proposal that profit payments are not taxed as final income but as income, we remind you that the same is not the subject of the Tax on Profits Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20049	There you go, consideration of the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20050	Why we will still insist on this amendment, because it encourages and stimulates the retention of profits and its reinvestment in research and development, equipment, technology and improving working conditions. I think that what you have stated in your explanation can be bridged, but what is important is to increase private sector investment in development projects, rebuild the technology production base, especially investment in workers due to the avoidance of the transfer of benefits for many years and avoid investment, determine that the retained profit is to be released from tax obligations and that it must be reinvested in the next financial year, as we know, is a major accumulation of savings, the richest ones, and we do not have investments and reinvestments, and we would like to encourage, obviously and these changes in laws are going to be stimulated, but we believe that without such measures, it will be difficult. So the amendment introduces, this is very important, the principle of synthetic income taxation, or the addition of dividend income or the company's share in annual personal income, which is taxed by the same model as the income of work, and that's somewhere our intensity to go on synthetic taxation, and as we know, we now have one completely different model, analytically, what is our goal here, is to go towards synthetic income taxation and according to some of the indications that we received and from Minister Maric, there is some understanding that it goes towards synthetic income taxation. That's why we're going to insist on this amendment and ask for his, uh, vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20051	We still have on this bill amendments by MP Katarina Peovic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20052	Thank you. Amendment to Art. Four is not accepted. As part of the tax reform for the purpose of discharging entrepreneurs, the basic tax rate has been reduced from 20 to 18, for entrepreneurs who make annual incomes up to 7.5 million kuna, it has been reduced to 10%, now to.../incomprehensible/... the profit tax rate in the Republic of Croatia is already being determined according to the economic strength of the taxpayer, with taxpayers who earn annual income above 7.5 million kuna paying at an 18% rate. In the case of taxation of profits, only the tax rate prescribed is not the only indicator of comparisons with other countries, but also the way in which a tax base is established which is important to determine the existence of tax exemptions or certain exemptions from taxation and before applying the tax rate itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20053	A review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20054	Thank you for your explanation. The Workers' Front and I here insist on this amendment precisely because we don't think it's a fair tax issue, especially if we consider it, and I think it's a profit tax that's the most important item. We cannot look beyond the context, that our profit tax rate is one of the lowest rates in Europe. It goes of course, everything according to that logic of this tax reform happens according to logic that it makes it easier for those who already have, who are rich, to reinvest, here, we saw that you refused an amendment that would precisely, have the intensity to reinvest, accumulate savings again, will accumulate wealth. We see a report from the CNB a few days ago showing that the savings of the richest have increased by even 11 billion kuna. 1% of the richest keep 1/4 of the total savings in their hands, therefore, we believe that the tax on profits that is criminally low in our country, which is one of the lowest in Europe needs to be changed, so the relationship with those who have, firstly, is important to reinvest, and secondly, it is really important to tax the profits of those who make very good money. With this tax reform, we believe that those who make very good money will have even more and save that money, so we will not invest, and at the same time, with income taxes, no tax measures and reforms of those who have really low wages, leave at that level, and we know that those who have low wages, spend all their salaries, unlike those who have much more, who will only accumulate more, so I will insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20055	Thank you. Is there another amendment to MP Peovic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20056	Amendment to Art. Six is not accepted. The reduced rate per deduction of dividends in profits to non-physical foreign persons, from 12 to 10, was proposed due to an increase in the competitiveness of the economy. It is important to note that due to the change in the acquis, i.e. the application of the EU acquis to tax after deduction of dividends and share in profits, home companies in the EU are also applied to.../incomprehensible/... RH. Also, other non-EU countries, and in taxing dividends and profits, agreements on avoidance of double taxation apply. In these contracts, the rate is usually well below these 12 or even 10% limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20057	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20058	So, what's up with this? 6 in that amended law, this article provides for a reduction in the tax rate after deduction of dividends in profits to foreign persons who are not physically from 12 to 10 % and a reduction in the tax rate after deduction for foreign performers' fees when compensation is paid by a foreign or foreign payer according to a contract with an foreign person, which is not physically from 15 to 10 %. As a rule, here it is very often about the tax per deduction which is actually something that happens as a hidden payout to the non-residents, this amendment of mine would go against the hidden payout of non-residents, it also makes no sense that this tax is diminishing because it is anyway low, and certainly, if we take into account the hidden payout of non-residents, that tax should not be reduced, therefore, I will insist on this amendment and vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20059	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20060	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, second reading, P.Z. Number 56. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Green-left bloc's Green-left Club of Representatives and representative Katarina Peovic. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. First we have an amendment to the Green-Left bloc Club, as I said the government won't accept it, so let's go vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to the two amendments of Congresswoman Katarina Peović, Amendment number 1. The government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the second amendment of the same representative, the government won't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 129 MPs and MPs, 96 for, 10 abstentions, 33 against and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20252	We are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 57. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the IDS Representatives Club, the Independent Lists Bridge Club, the representative of Nikola Grmoja, the representative of Katarina Peović, the Green-left bloc representative club. The first amendment is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20253	Thank you very much. Amendment to Art. 1. The HS Legislative Committee as no-technical is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20254	The second amendment is Green-Left Block Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20255	The amendment is not accepted. In the context of tax reform, the highest tax rate has been abolished in previous tax discharge rounds, leading to a reduction in the tax burden on labour and entrepreneurship. Taxation by a smaller number of tax rates and classes is achieved in taxation and is the same in line with the recommendations of the European Commission
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20256	Look, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Green Left-Block Club remains with this amendment. Let me briefly repeat our argument once again, although we spoke very closely about it in the first and second readings. Our main objection to these proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act does not concern so many tax rates that this law intends to lower from 24 to 20 and from 36 to 30%. Our main objection is to the fact that it is, in fact, that 99% of the taxpayer actually pays income tax de facto income tax at the same rate. I will repeat once again, all those whose gross wages are at monthly level between 5,000 kuna and $42,500 kuna, all of them therefore pay income tax at one rate, there were 24 now you have suggested 20. On the contrary, we think that it is appropriate and necessary to introduce a progressive tax system, that it is necessary to introduce 4 rates of income tax. The amendment was precisely elaborated on which four feet were involved. That's 15, 20, 30 and 40%. The amendment also accurately elaborated what are the traces of the tax base to which individual rates apply. And lastly, not least, the calculations show that the proposal that we have proposed with our amendment is, in fact, neutral as regards the loss of income income from income tax both in this case and in the government's proposal, so this loss would be about 2 billion kuna. Therefore, we remain on our proposal and pray for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20258	The third amendment is Commissioner Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20259	Amendment to Art. 4 is not accepted. The explanation is as for the previous amendment. We also point out that increasing the tax burden would further contribute to the departure of young highly educated people from the country to other EU Member States, which also leads to negative demographic trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20260	Here's your representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20261	Okay, I mean, it was clear to me that you would refuse my amendment, but I really didn't hope for such an explanation that something going on would lead to those who have less wages increasing wages leading to emigration. I have to admit, I wasn't hoping. So, what's this about? As is our club, therefore, the Workers' Front goes after progressive taxation. Progressive taxation is a fair taxation unlike this tax reform that will increase inequality and increase poverty to the largest number of people, and give the most to those who have over 30,000 kuna gross wages. Therefore, in Croatia 90% of people have paid less than 15,000 kuna gross. These people need to raise their salaries the most. For example, with this reform that you are proposing, those with 25,000 kunas will receive about 1,500 kuna, those with salaries of about 10,000 kuna will get about a few hundred thousand kunas, so I don't know how they will be rewarded now, and those with less than 10,000 kuna will get even less than 100 kuna. By progressive taxation as suggested by the Workers' Front with rates of 10, 20, 40, 80 with thresholds of 7,500 kuna, 15,000 kuna would therefore be if you had a minimumer since you would raise an untaxable share to 5,000 kuna you would get 1,600 kuna more, if you worked for 15,000 kuna you would get about 1,000 kuna more, if you worked for 30,000 kunas gross 177 kuna higher, and all over 30,000 we would tax salaries with a rate of 80%, which is just and which is progressive. In any case, such a tax system is not only fair but also economically justified because those who have the lowest wages spend their full wages, and those who have more than 30,000 kunas will only accumulate their wealth. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20262	The fourth amendment is Green-Left Block Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20263	Amendment to Art. The 7th is not accepted since it is already an article. 16th of this final draft law by the legislator proposed the same norm, which applies to other income.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20264	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20265	Thank you very much. Here's a little bit, so we're staying with this amendment, and we're going to pray that it's being voted on. But let me say the following. The Green-Left Block Club has submitted an entire set of amendments to this Law amending the Income Tax Act in an effort to be consistent with the concept proposed by the law. The key amendment we suggested was exactly the last few minutes rejected, which I elaborated in detail. All other amendments of the Green-Left bloc Club are in place of this previously discussed, so it's about amendments, I'm reading now in line, the 4th one we're currently talking about, the 9th, 10th, 13, 15th, and 16, all these other amendments are simply the co-rollers of the previous one. If, therefore, the previous amendment is not adopted, and I repeat once again, we have prayed to vote on it, unless the previous amendment is adopted, the amendment does not adopt, we will not ask for a vote on these amendments on the 4th, 9th, 10th, 13, 15th and 16th because it becomes not only groundless but, in fact, it is fair to say, that if by some miracle and were accepted we would actually be counterproductive and harmful in the body of the law as proposed by the government. So we stay, to recapitulate, we stay with this amendment conditionally, as well as with everyone else depending on whether or not to accept our first amendment listed here under regular no. 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20266	The 5th amendment is MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20267	The amendment is the same as the amendments in question, so it is not accepted. As indicated for the previous amendment, I remind you. The 16th final draft of the law was proposed by the same standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20268	A review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20269	The explanation is the same as before. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20270	The 6th Amendment is the club of IDS MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20271	The amendment also applies to Art. 7. Therefore, for the same reasons as the previous two amendments is not accepted. I remind you of an article. The 16th amendment of this Standard refers to the second income listed in this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20272	A review of the IDS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20273	Your Honor, we stand by the amendment and ask for a vote. We believe that the proposed changes would encourage the environment for work, but this would also encourage the remaining of our citizens in Croatia and we believe that these changes would lead to positive demographic trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20274	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20275	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20276	The 7th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20277	Amendment to Art. The 10th is not accepted. According to the final draft of the law, an increase in the tax on income is prescribed on the basis of a disproportionate asset by increasing the tax rate from 50 to 100%, so that income tax is paid at a rate of 60%. In the event of an disproportionateity arising from a criminal offence, the criminal proceedings shall be taken away from the entire unlawful property benefit or property itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20278	Here's a review of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20279	Dear Secretary, a few weeks ago, we voted in the budget where we were the most active party as a club of the Most Active Party, where we wanted to take responsibility with you, given that we believe that the Republic of Croatia's budget is the most important, most important means through which we can influence the lives and co-existence of Croatian citizens. And you refused by sending a clear message to the entire Croatian people that you are taking responsibility now at this time for poverty and all that awaits us in the next period. The rejection of this amendment shows that this trend continues for reasons I do not see, I do not see any raid that the tax administration does not involve in the process of detecting people who have a disproportionateness of their property and that the Croatian state is fully or in the rates that we have proposed here to charge for all those disproportionate assets and incomes that our citizens have, and so we do not see reason for it. And on the other hand, we can't see reason in six years. The last affair that took place in Slovenia 9, so the mayors of Velika Gorica forgot, and therefore the other actors who participated there, and where only those actors, who came from 2012, were in '13. And the time of Sanader, for example. What are you afraid of? Why can't we extend this year? Why can't we investigate all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have done the opposite of the law of the Republic of Croatia? And there is this new sovereignty, so that the Croatian state only collects into the budget what has been stolen and we see no reason why we can't extend this time frame and thus cover all citizens who have acted contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20280	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20281	Of course, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20282	8th Amendment of Agent Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20283	The amendment is the same as before. It is therefore not accepted with reasons as well as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20284	Here's the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20285	Thank you. We were still a driving force in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. That's what we wanted to prove to these amendments. We gave you our hand, gave you one more chance to explore all those who have a disproportionate proportion of their incomes and assets. That's a lot of them. A colleague of the Troscotts mentioned some actors of the affair, meaning from Slovenia 9. Not only the Mayor of Gorica, Mr Barisic, but, for example, and Mr. Kovacevic who never came to the tax administration. It's also your responsibility, so State Secretary and all of you from the Ministry of Finance. In the proposed changes, Minister Maric suggested that we can only explore the disproportionate property for the last 6 years. Every year we lose, it's in the current law, right or wrong, just for the last six years. In the current law, don't deny the law, we're asking, we're asking it to be for the last 20 years, to be covered by Sanader's time so that we can explore the disproportionateness of property for all those who can't mean and who have the difference between receiving and what they have in reality, from apartments, cars and everything else. Thus, it can be filled in by the Croatian budget, and it can also enable the tax administration to act, and then it can start other institutions that you are talking about, and that is this repressive apparatus that can ultimately take away all the property if criminal acts are proven. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20286	9th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20287	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20288	Here's a review of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20289	Thank you very much, I won't be longer, everything has already been said, so we're staying with this amendment, but, of course, conditionally, it's also in the function of Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20290	Amendment No. Ten. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20291	Amendment to Art. 11. Not accepted. As according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, the objective is to continue the further disbursement of taxpayers by this final proposal of the law, a reduction of the tax rates applicable in the taxation of annual and final incomes of flat-rate activity taxation has been proposed. Therefore, the increase in tax rates as proposed by this amendment would not be in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given that the same would affect the income available because of the increase in tax burden and natural persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20292	Here you go, review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20293	... same as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20294	11th Amendment Advocacy Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20295	Amendment to Art. 13 not accepted. The issue of old age is governed by the General Tax Law and is not the subject of this law. Exceptionally, in relation to the deadlines laid down by the General Tax Code, the possibility of handling the Tax Administration beyond those deadlines, and as mentioned earlier by his colleague, is prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act and the Tax Administration Act itself, which states that the Tax Administration, in addition to the rest, carries out the tasks of the control of the analytical processing of data without the limitation of the time limits of the terms of the General Tax Code, and carries out the exchange of data relevant for taxation with intelligence agencies and law enforcement authorities and for the determination of property of significant value acquired in an illegal manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20296	Do you have an overview of the bridge of the independent lists? There isn't. Amendment No. 12 MPs, Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20297	Since it is the same as the previous amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20298	There's no representative. 13th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20299	Amendment to Art. 16 is accepted, and the reasons are the same as for Amendment No. 10 of the same club in Art. The 11th final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20300	Here you go, review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20301	Thank you very much. So this amendment is essentially equivalent to our amendment No. 2, so this particular reference is made to Article 2. 16 of the proposed law and, in reality, Art. The 24th currently applicable Income Tax Act, the answer is in... income tax and also speaks of four tax rates and corresponding thresholds in the tax base. We are also staying on this amendment, and we are just as conditionally asking that it be voted on depending on the outcome of the vote on amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20302	Amendment No. 14 MPs Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20303	Amendment to Art. 16 is not accepted. In the context of tax reform, the highest tax rate has been abolished in previous tax discharge rounds, leading to a reduction in the tax burden of labour and entrepreneurship. Taxation of a smaller number of tax rates and classes achieves the simplicity of taxation and is in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. Furthermore, the amendment proposes to regulate the monthly fixing of income tax advances based on non-permanent work for all entrepreneurs and the limit of application of the annual reduction of the tax liability, but only for young people, not taking into account the provisions of the law which prescribes annual tax rates and tax classes. It is therefore not possible to accept the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20304	Representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20305	This amendment is in line with previous and literally implemented in terms of proposing progressive taxation and rate 10, 20, 40, 80, as suggested by the Workers' Front or myself in front of the Workers' Front. What I'd like to point out is just two more things, one thing, why is progressive taxation a fair taxation? Because by your proposal you will give those with 30,000 kunas more somewhere around 1,500 kuna, and by progressive taxation offered by the Workers' Front, those who have a minimum wage will be raised by 1,600 kuna. Those who have 30,000 kuna would only rise with 177 kuna, and your tax solution will pay those people on the minimum wage for some to have for that one sandwich around. It's first of all just that we have progressive taxation. But it's not just about justice, it's about economic justice or economics. Why? Those who have low wages, you said they'd go abroad, so I don't think they'd go abroad if we gave some experts more salaries, so those who have more than 30,000 kunas are people who make 50 times as much money as a man who has a minimum. No one's worth 50 times more or working 50 times better than a man on a minimal. But why is it economical? Because whoever has a minimumer if you give him 1,600 kunas all your salary will be spent. That's how consumption is encouraged. We know that our VAT is the basic tax that fills our budget, by spending things would be started. In this way you will only stimulate an even greater accumulation of the savings of the richest because we know that in the crisis in the crown crisis no one spends but is just saving and accumulated. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20306	Amendment No. 15 Green-left bloc representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20307	Amendment to Art. 17 is not accepted, the explanation is partly in the background of the previous amendment, i.e. the same as for amendments No. 10 and 13 Green-Left Block Clubs relating to Art. 11th and 16th final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20308	Here you go, review.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20309	Thank you very much. The same is our observation as in previous cases, so we remain with this amendment, of course conditional on the outcome of the vote on amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20310	Amendment No. 16 Green-Left Block Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20311	Amendment to Art. 18. The final bill is not accepted, the argument is the same as the amendments to the same club No. 10 and 13 in Art. 11th and 16th final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20312	Thank you, Secretary of State. That's what we shot you with. Following is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, second reading, P.Z. No. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20313	Thank you. I won't be long, but let me just say it again and point out once again as before we remain on the condition of this amendment as previously said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20314	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20315	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 57. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the IDS Representatives Club, the Independent Lists Bridge Club, the representative of Nikola Grmoja, the representative of Katarina Peović, the Green-left bloc representative club. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session, so let's now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first is the Legislative Committee, he is accepted. The second amendment to the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 3 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept it, and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We will now vote united on Amendment No. 4 Green-left block representatives club and No. 5 representatives of Katarina Peovic are identical content. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20316	As a club, we've already given up on these amendments since the amendment hasn't passed. 2, and I am also giving up further amendments since no amendment has passed. 3 on progressive taxation so that it doesn't all make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20317	Okay. So you're giving up voting in the case of all your amendments? All right. Then let's go to Amendment No. 6 The IDS representative club doesn't accept it, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Please colleagues from the room here until, you're very loud you're really very loud and distracting the work. Please. We're going to no, I'm sorry, the Advocacy Bridges of the 7th Amendments and the 8th Amendment of MPs Nikola Grumoje are identical content, the government doesn't accept them, so we're going to vote unitedly. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendments 9 and 10. Green-left bloc representatives' club has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 11 and Amendment No. 12 are identical Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Representative of Nikola Grmoy, so we vote unitedly. The government doesn't accept them. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. 13 amendments have been withdrawn, 14 has been withdrawn, 15 has been withdrawn and 16 has been withdrawn so that we can move to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, 84 were for, 10 abstentions and 33 against and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act was passed. My colleagues, please, now I'm really going to start sharing warnings, and what you're doing is extremely rude and not correct to all of us sitting here. You talk loudly, yell, throw, smile even swear some of you I beg you to really stop. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on fiscalisation of cash transport, second reading, P.Z. Number 58. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 128 MPs and MPs, 78 for, 14 abstentions, 36 against and passed the Law amending the Law on fiscalisation in cash transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20701	The following is the statement of the amendment to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local, regional and regional self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 73. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the submitted Green-Left Block Representatives' Club and the SASS Representatives' Club, please, State Secretary Zdravko Zrinasic, to show himself. First on this Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20702	Thank you very much. ... Mr. Vice President of HS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Art. 2. Since it is nomotechnically accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20703	You can't hear. Excuse me. The amendment is accepted. [[Intruder Zrinašić: accepted.]] Here's what you've signaled, Mr. Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20704	I just wanted to ask you to repeat what law and what amendment it is. I'm sorry I didn't hear, but I guess I'm not the only one, so I didn't quite understand the amendment... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20705	Okay. I read this about the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, the 1st amendment to which the Secretary of State is indicated on the amendment of the Committee on Law. He's taking it. The second amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20706	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Amendments to the Income Tax Act proposed a reduction of tax rates from 36 to 30 and 24 to 20 and also these amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government funds are envisaged to be charged directly from the state budget, and the ratio of these charges is to be foreseen that cities and municipalities their quota from 60 is increased by 14% points or to 74, and counties from 17 to 20. When calculating as a proposal, the Government also took into account the impact of the reduction in income tax itself as well as the corresponding income tax cut, and the basis of the calculation of the cut is the very amount of tax. In this respect, we hold and believe that the allocation of income from income tax and the reference value set out in this law are optimally reducing the inequalities of the fiscal capacities of local, regional (regional) self-government units, which enables evenly ensuring income for the performance of their laws of regulated transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20707	Thank you. The third amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20708	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted. It is identical since it is the same as the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20709	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u20710	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 73. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Green-left Block Representatives Club and the SDSS Representatives' Club. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first is the Committee on Legislatives, and the government accepts it and becomes an integral part of the law. The second Green-left bloc representative club, the government does not accept, and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 3rd amendment, i.e. the 1st amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, is accepted by the Government and becomes an integral part of the bill. And we are going to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs, 80 for, 15 abstentions, 33 against and thus passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21218	Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning to you. We're moving on with our work. Today we will be making the first statement on amendments and a statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, please the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted. Dear Mr Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. Given that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in agreement with the proposed conclusion of the HS on which it is required to submit a report to HS 3 times a year on the effects of the implementation of the measures provided for in this law. In addition, the health minister regularly reports on the current status of coronaryvirus in the Republic of Croatia at each meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since the start of the epidemic. Thank you very much. Here, I can do it again. [[/Intruder: Excuse me, what amendment are we talking about?]] [[We didn't hear anything.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder: Nothing was heard. Not even an amendment that is, we haven't heard anything.]] So the amendment is not accepted. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia agrees with the proposed conclusion of the HS under which it is required to submit a report to HS 3 times a year on the effects of the implementation of the measures provided for in this Act to the HS. [[Intruder: Please, Your Honor, Secretary of State, please just a moment.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21220	A bridge of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21221	Amendment of the Bridge of Independent Lists to Art. 6 The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] It means one more time. The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia agrees with the proposed conclusion of the HS, according to which it is required to submit a report to the HS three times a year on the effects of the implementation of the measures provided for in this law. In addition, the Minister of Health regularly reports at each meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since the start of the epidemic on the topical status of the coronaryvirus in the Republic, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia regularly points out legal proposals related to the effects of the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases and is regularly discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21222	Here you go. Anyone want to show off the Bridge?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21223	Of course. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed vice president of HS. [[Employee: Here are the esteemed MPs.]] This is the only amendment to this law. With this amendment, we wanted to send an important message, which is that we are willing to cooperate on this issue that is a crucial issue for the health and lives of our nation. That's our hand you refused. We're in an independent situation, the numbers are rising rapidly, and hopefully, at some point, they're going to fall. In order to evaluate and take appropriate measures, this situation needs to be acted quickly. Three times a year in a situation like this doesn't mean anything. England revises its measures every two weeks. All the competent countries in Europe have brought in clear parameters that they have come up with with their citizens to explain why they must adhere to measures which, for example in the Croatian case, violate their right to privacy, the right to freedom and the right to work, which are all categories guaranteed by the Constitution. At no time has your government told the citizens why they must give up their values in order to take such measures. What's the problem if you don't tell them? So if you don't tell people what the criteria are on the basis of these measures, people will still not follow those measures and our situation will deteriorate. We have asked you for something very simple with this amendment, which is that we are working together, that you first give us a report on the work of the Staff so that we can even discuss what measures we need, and then once a month our citizens hear what is happening, what criteria you used to bring these measures, whether they should be sharpened or tempered. You said no. Why, you'll have to explain to Croatian citizens when the numbers grow again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21224	Are you asking for a vote? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[Intruder: Yes.]] The following is the proposal for a conclusion, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club and Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives' Club, the HSLS's Club and the National Party-reformist's National Minority Representatives' Club and the SDSS's Club of Representatives. They suggest the conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to give HS three times a year at the beginning and at the end of its regular session between 15 January and 15 July and at the beginning of its regular session between 15 September and 15 September. ... submits a report on the effects of the implementation of the measures provided for in this Act and, in force, the decision following the announcement of the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by the SARS Cov-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia since 11 March 2020, which the Minister of Health made on the proposal of the Croatian Institute for Public Health in accordance with Article. 2.St. 4. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear Parliamentarians. The government accepts the proposed conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21226	Now we'll move on to the vote and now go ahead, colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21227	Dear President of the HS, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club because of the first point in line, the vote, it's this Law on the Protection of the public. I must stress here that today you will bring measures that will affect all people in Croatia. Measures that will affect their privacy, their freedom, their work. These are categories guaranteed by the Constitution. So it's going to affect almost 4 million people without you doing any analysis. Without you giving any reports of what this famous headquarters has been doing for the last nine months and we're aware of the situation in the Bridge, we're aware of the seriousness of the situation, so we're not clear why you're falling back into the system, maybe even a dead end, we're not really clear. And we gave you the amendment, we were constructive, we wanted to cooperate in this way for the general good of people in Croatia. What did you do? Here, you're in a very sloppy, incorrect way to copy that amendment, you've again delayed the Staff to come here and report for a new three, four months, asking people to listen to you, not explaining the criteria by which you're taking measures. So what do you think will happen in Croatia? When you force measures, and do not explain to people why you bring them. Well, he won't listen to them, so what do you think's gonna happen to the health system? And that's why I can tell you calm souls, with this you take all the blame for what's going to happen in Croatia, for the health system that's falling apart in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21228	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Another orderly request for a break comes from fellow Vrkljana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21229	Your Honor. The request for a break on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club because, if you followed closely, this is the seventh law since the independent Republic of Croatia on the same subject. So is it really possible that in 30 years, we have seven times to pass a law concerning the protection of the Croatian population from the epidemic? If we remember, Dubrovnik had one such law and it was worth several hundred years and now we've made the same mistake again, we're writing a law concerning only one disease. Tomorrow, when another epidemic and another pandemic appear, we'll be writing a new law again. Moreover, this law is completely inappropriate because in these difficult times when corruption and corruption problems are very much viewed in Croatia, you have put into law that potential offenders of this law pay from 1 to, from 5 to 10 thousand kuna. And a potential legal person from 10 to 40 thousand kuna. So I ask you again, to use this break to consult you, we have nothing to consult about, because, how can you give one officer such a tool in hand to someone to come to the door and say I will punish you with 10 thousand kuna or I will punish you with 40 so let's make a deal. So do we live in the same country? Well, these things, they happen all the time, so our entrepreneurs complain about it in the Republic of Croatia that inspectors and inspectors act in a way that they try to make arrangements over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21230	Thank you. The recess will be approved. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21231	Dear President of the HS, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. Here he would warn you, but he would also remind the Croatian public that we had entered a complete lockdown, in the total closure of the state, only when it suited Andrej Plenkovic, or HDZ. That was after the internal elections were over. Then we ended up with lockdown when Andrej Plenkovic, or HDZ, was assessed to be responsible for the upcoming parliamentary elections. Now again, without consulting the opposition, without respecting a word of advice of opposition, guidance, amendment, whatever, therefore, is passed, one law that is very, very ticky and I think about key things, such as these things, in times of crisis, such as this time would necessarily have to be consulted and should have a consensus of Croatian politics and opposition and positions. Unfortunately, we don't have it, the State Department is in charge of civil protection, which is one of the paranormals, and it does whatever it wants. Just this once make sure that what happened in the third month, no one will be on the balcony anymore, no one will clap on Mr. Beros or clap on the Civil Protection Staff because these measures that are being prescribed today have nothing to do with the protection of the epidemic. So this is grumbling we have things that are allowed that should not be allowed, on the other hand we also have a call to snitching which is out of every sense. That's what we last had in communism in the '70s, and today we definitely shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21232	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21233	Dear President, on behalf of the HSLS and Reformers Club, I request a 10-minute recess to further consult on the vote on this item. One notice I would like to share here with you yesterday was published by the World Health Organization, and it was just at the press conference confirmed by the National Staff that after almost two weeks of the Varazdin County in the first place the worst in Europe had been replaced by Međimurje County at the moment. It's still too soon for exact data, we'll wait a few more days, but it's visible that the trend in the number of people infected in Varazdin, in Varazdin County in stagnation, we first introduced measures, we first insisted on measures and here they show that the measures are unquestionably always and everywhere giving results, the only question is whether they are sufficient. At the same time as we insisted, we were literally screaming for the introduction of measures by Međimurje County, which is at this moment the worst there was communicating that measures were not necessary. I'm just saying that you see this as a concrete example of what happens in terms of measures. We believe this law is part of the system of measures. It is important and the law is also about sanctions because, as you know, there is no respect for the law without sanctions. These questions that everyone is asking, the issue of home invulnerability is a particularly important topic, which is why yesterday we were communicating with the Minister of the Interior and we were given the assurance that the constitutional category of home invulnerability will be particularly protected and that in this sense special instructions will be issued for the conduct of police officers because it is clear that police conduct in public and private space, private homes should not and should not be the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21234	And your break will be approved, so now we'll give the word to our colleague, Bauku. And I'd like to ask someone who's playing with their cell phone to turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21235	When the government tried to play with their cell phone, then we shut them down in the third month, so I support what the president said. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out once more...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21236	This was the sound of a cell phone, which is why I said, not because of playing because I already said it, it could be us, a lot of us would be shut out of the game then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21237	So we're gonna reboot for two minutes?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21238	Seconds more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21239	So, once again on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to express my view on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. We in the SDP support measures that will help suppress the pandemic, but we do not exactly support every measure the government proposes in this direction. In this law there are 3 to express the category of measures in the boxing dictionary, the measure of the easy category is wearing the mask ok, the measure of the middle category is the one relating to public gatherings, so the average majority and the measures of the heavy category, which is what counterpart Martincevic mentioned, the ban or the restriction of private gatherings. It is a difficult category measure, and if it is a difficult situation, then it requires both a difficult and difficult majority for its adoption. It is time for the parliamentary majority to admit to themselves that we are from a domain of ordinary so-called. the protection of health as referred to in Article 16 in this case came into the category of major natural disasters referred to in Article 17 and, if a difficult measure is sought, it should also be decided by a severe majority, respectively. That's why we won't support this law. I know you've read us a lot of the Constitutional Court decisions, but in that decision they're attached to opinions, so at least that's doubtful for them, so it can be for us. So if you want to solve things in principle, angry grass on an angry wound, at least admit to the people that the wound is angry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21240	Thank you very much. We are now going to the sixth debate, dear colleague Tomaševic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21241	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club to consult on this bill for the next 10 minutes. What we as the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives argue is that the health crisis is serious, that the measures are necessary, we are dissatisfied with how this, how this health crisis has been managed especially in the last few months, we have proposed different ways of managing it, so that we do not come into this situation where we are, did not allow ourselves, was not allowed to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, let alone to listen to us, but what should be said that we are de facto in a state of emergency and that Article 17. The Constitution de facto should be in force and that since we restrict the freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution, such as the inviolability of home and gathering that we need from this perspective and we must have 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament. If you were open to the opposition dialogue in this very difficult crisis then you would share with us responsibility and allow us to have 2/3 of the majority here when we vote on these measures. But obviously you want to be alone, and then you'll be responsible for it yourself. On the other hand, we cannot agree to such disproportionate penalties as are in this law, we cannot agree to the fact that we are de facto restricting by the Constitution guaranteed by rights and freedoms indefinitely, meaning without some kind of control that should be by Parliament every few weeks because, because this is simply the basis of democracy, regardless of the crisis, we must have democratic control of such measures which seriously affect constitutional rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21242	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21243	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am asking for a 10 minute break in order to tell the Croatian public once again that this law, which we will now prescribe a framework based on the government and the National Civil Protection Centre, is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What we are doing, HS and the Republic of Croatia, is doing to all democratic states in Europe that have left the fight against the epidemic to the government, even to one France where these powers are left to the prime minister, the French prime minister. What I don't understand from the position of the opposition, does the opposition bother that this law is passed with 76 instead of 101 hands or do you mind its measure, the measures prescribed by this law? My colleague Bauk, these three measures we are going to introduce today, divided by this law into 3 groups, as easier, medium and difficult measures, and this difficult measure, according to him, is the possibility of checking in a home, whether more than 10 people are gathered. Well, Mr. Bauk, if that's a heavy measure, I agree that she's heavy, as you said boxically, it's a technical knockout then she's a classic knockout with long-term consequences for an opponent deprived of freedom prescribed by the Penal Code. Deprivement of freedom and in this assembly is brought with 76 hands. If something a couple of excellence is limiting human rights, it's deprived of freedom. And that deprivement of liberty and everyone and everyone, all the criminal provisions in Croatia were resolved by the Penal Code, whether resolved by the Criminal Law by 76 hands. The only thing this assembly has found to be brought with 101 votes is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These are constitutional laws on the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, everything else is passed with 76 hands. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21244	Thank you, Comrade Bacic, thank you very much. The apartment will be approved to you. Comrade Demetlik, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21245	Unfortunately, by taking measures you bring ad hoc without clear criteria and depending on the political moment that suits you. Unfortunately, the headquarters has become a political body and therefore trust in the national headquarters and thus is lost and no longer exists in the government. Now that you've got water to your throat and you're ignoring all the opposition proposals, and in March, we've just shown from the opposition when it comes to our citizens' health that we're prepared to support the laws to protect our citizens. What bothers us, we don't mind giving it 76 votes if you have them, but it bothers us that you don't accept any proposals exactly opposition and you still ignore it. I will give an example of this ignoring is an example of the appeal of Istrian mayors and mayors to whom you have not honored or responded. And in the end, you expect support from the opposition. Normally, we are out of opposition to introduce measures to protect our citizens. But I will also point out to you by respecting and ruling that the achievement and respect of measures should be achieved through the rational decisions made by consensus and the professional authority of the headquarters. This kind of behavior will never happen again, but it will be left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21246	The apartment will be approved to you. Now it's my colleague Lenart's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21247	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS and HSU Club. The law you have made is not precise enough, it enters the freedoms and rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, you are constantly spreading fear and it is good that you bring it with 76 hands. However, that law was already passed before he came here to debate because none of you 76 dare raise their hands against it because it would be too much of a loss for you personally. That is why there is no purpose in the work of this assembly because everything voted here during the vote has already been accepted before and determined that it must be so. It's good why you vote with 76 hands to know who brought it, and no, don't say later we're not that HDZ. We've got that old HDZ, we've got a new one, so that's what you're messing with about. During the debate, Minister Beros said "we are balancing". Yes, unfortunately, you're balancing by heart, and that's why we're where we are. When you are given a measure, when it is not lawful for you, you will press your measure. In the budget is the sentence of '21. increased by 70 million kuna. Are you going to increase the income this way? You must know that some citizens find it hard to buy a mask, that many citizens are digging through a container. As I said here in the debate and many here in the assembly wear a mask after its expiry date. That's where we need to see what's the point of what we're bringing. Is that really worth it and going to that goal that should go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21248	The apartment will be approved to you. And the last 10th intervention, dear colleague Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21249	Your Honor, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Center and Voice Party Club. All the proposals for the opposition were actually constructive and well-intentioned, you rejected them all. You insist on taking responsibility for this crisis on your own, so I urge you to respond to the end and disband the headquarters because the headquarters is guilty of escalating the number of infected. The headquarters is guilty of losing citizens' trust, so their measures are not respected, and by raising the government, by adapting its measures to special dates and special events, and now the burden of the situation should be taken on its back by paying the penalties that are restrictive, which are not justified and which are deeply questionable constitutionalities. I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21250	Thank you all. I'm going to call in an article now. 293.b, then we're not going to take a 10 minute break, but we'll proceed with the vote immediately. And here we go, final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Association of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, which the Prime Minister did not accept during the amendment's statement, and we will then vote on the amendment which the applicant does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs, 45 for, 3 abstentions and 78 against. Therefore, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the HS will now be voted on, and most of all MPs are required to pass this law, namely 76 votes. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 129 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were in favour, 53 were against and thus passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The HDZ Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club – Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the National Party-Reformist Club, the National Minority Representatives' Club and the SDSS Club proposed the following conclusion. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Parliament three times a year at the beginning of and at the end of its regular session between 15 January and 15 July and at the beginning of its regular session between 15 September and 15 December a report on the effects of the implementation of the measures laid down in this law, while the decision to declare the outbreak of Covid-19 is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia since 11 March 2020, which the Minister of Health made on the proposal of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Institute of Public Health in accordance with Article. 2.St. 4. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. I am voting on the proposed conclusion that the government accepts. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were in favour, 36 abstentions and 15 against, and we have thus reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the club representatives. There's a colleague named Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21251	Mr. President, I was the one who raised my hand when you announced the result of the vote. So this question about the majority will not now be about whether or not it should be this or that, I want to get a written answer as to whether the representative Frankovic had the right to vote in a way from a distance in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given that he has been uninterrupted since Wednesday in alleged self-insulation, and on Wednesday he was in the New TV Dnevnik and made a statement outside of isolation, so that the doubt would not remain, I ask that we be determined and that we be informed. If you know the answer now, you can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21252	Yeah. I got, I got the information today, it was just this query and I checked, he's in increased surveillance or preventive isolation, by the way of his epidemiologist, colleague Voter, I don't know what's funny because you have the same, just a little bit, please. And colleague Iljkić from your ranks is also in preventive self-insulation because he has symptoms as well as a colleague Frankovic, I don't know what's funny to you. You think it's funny that someone has Covid's symptoms? I don't know why that's funny. The man's been tested, he's got a fever, and I don't realize it can be funny to anyone. So do you think it's hard for him to get to Zagreb with a car? No, no, I don't understand you, I really don't understand you. Here's my colleague Capula, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21253	... Rules of Procedure. 238. [[Specially enabled.]] So as a person who's been in measures of enhanced supervision by the Department of Public Health, I got a warrant to limit maximum possible all social contacts, but that didn't mean, it's not identical to self-insulation. I was unfortunately in self-insulation when I wasn't going anywhere at all, but these are two different measures to which there are two different professional ones. interpreting people who do so. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Capula.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21254	All right, this, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I warned my colleagues and colleagues that what happened and why my colleague Frankovic was on video. So there are all the conditions of Art. 293.b., there are reasonable reasons why he is not in the Croatian Parliament today. But colleagues Škoro and counterpart Selak Rasdic also appear for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21255	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of HS, what Mr. Hood said, was therefore not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You've noticed that well, as well as someone who's over the coronary virus, I can confirm that what you're talking about is not self-insulation at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21256	Okay, but I don't know why you called to confirm what I said. ... Thank you, it means a lot to me, thank you very much, thank you very much. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21257	Art. In 238, the respected speaker again demeans parliamentary MPs, more specifically the opposition, stressing that they are laughing and thus trying to send a message to Croatian citizens that they are in this difficult situation. The opposition must not be first because it wears masks, unless you try to look them in the eye again, which you could do for some other people, especially those who have politically created you like Sanader, Kosor and Karamarko. The opposition is only appalled by the fact that again show the existence of double criteria. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, colleagues Selak Rasudić]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21258	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, when someone laughs and hears it, so last time I told you to see it, you can see it, and you can hear it, and now it's really loud, so I didn't tell you last time to open your eyes, now just listen with your ears. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21259	Here's a respected colleague Frankovic raises his hand, so you can give him a word to hear from him how it is. A colleague Frankovic is trying to get a word in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21260	Comrade Zekanovic, you're the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21261	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21262	And you're not, well, thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Frankovic's, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We can't hear you, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21263	Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21264	I'll be in touch, you can say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21265	Thank you, Your Honor. Injury. 238, namely, I'm glad that my colleagues in the opposition take care of my health. I'm responsible for others. I deliver here on November 30th the first COvid negative report and I still have the temperature, December 3rd, another COvid negative report and I still have the temperature. The easiest thing for me would be if I could be in HS right now. I'm in passive isolation, so it's clear what passive self-insulation says, that day, and then you can't go to the gatherings, but it can function normally and get out of the house. [[Agreement: Thank you to my colleague Franković]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21266	Thank you very much. Can we finish this debate here? So we have an agent who's sick, who's in accordance with Art. 293.b. I stayed on video, and I really don't see any more reason why we would continue to discuss someone's health. Here you are, colleague Petrov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21267	Your Honor, I must continue this section for the reason that you have injured an officer. 238. I'd ask you to treat with respect for the MPs, you have no right to speak to someone to open their eyes, open their ears, wash their ears, etcetera. Yeah, I'd like to go first after 5. It could speak to this side because you don't hear anything and the way you're making the law today is exactly what you're saying. You don't hear, you don't see, you don't care. [[Employer: A colleague of Petrov]] It's about cognitive abilities if we want to be offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21268	Comrade Petrov, come on, please sit down. So please, I didn't return my colleague Rasdic at all in the way she would have deserved, given what she told me. So I answered simply what I heard and I don't know why she had to talk about me that way. So, you expect a representative or a representative to speak harshly to the president of HS and he toils and suffers? Well, of course I won't be silent and patient, but I will fight back, and I will choose words and I have chosen them now. Here are my colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21269	Don't disrespect the President of the Assembly, Art. 238, again demeaning me and misleading the Croatian public. You started this whole story by talking about whether I or not look people in the eye, and now you've expanded it, it's been a day before, and now you've spread it to my ears. Your task as meeting president is not to train my senses but to hear what the opposition tells you as a neutral observer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21270	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I will not continue this controversy, you know very well what you said about me and the way you spoke. So, I've answered you the way I feel you should. It's no disrespect, or do you think that you can demean others and that others can't even respond to what you've said? It's a strange logic to me, but it's yours. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic, no, excuse me, my colleague Bulj, called before that, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21271	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you've hurt an officer. 238, as Parliament's representative as Parliament Speaker, you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure, every pot cover, and you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure by commenting on parliamentary representatives like Mrs. A village representative you told to open her eyes and ears. You started that debate and you're doing chaos by breaking the Rules of Procedure in this assembly. And put an end to it, and warn yourselves. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21272	Thank you very much, then I'll interrupt that debate, so we'll no longer be in the semi-liminal world, but please don't pollemize then. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21273	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Art. 238, of course. I'm sorry, and that was a bit of a joke why you didn't give Frankovic a warning, that would be the first virtual reminder, and you had the chance because you didn't, you didn't call this one on any article, so maybe you should retroactively share a reminder that we have both this and the virtual reminder for the first time in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21274	So I don't know what to tell you in general, so he's the subject here, the person who's a sick subject is our debate and that I'm giving him more notice, so you have incredible logic, really amazing logic, even referred to an article as you said it wasn't because you didn't listen. All right, I mean, this whole thing is totally unnecessary what we're doing and we're leaving a really bad picture, but what I can do. We are now going to the SDP Club, which has proposed a conclusion which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that once a month HS delivers reports on the implementation and effects of measures adopted under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases." Now let's vote on that conclusion. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 131 MPs and MPs voted, 56 for, 75 against, therefore, the conclusion that it was proposed by the US Representatives' Club did not pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21475	Next statement on the amendments to: - Final bill on the completion of the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 72. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. I'd like to ask the Honorable Secretary of State Margaret Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21476	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Vice President, the MPs and the MPs. The amendment is not accepted. The norm itself prescribes redistribution to the longest 12 hours of work during 24 and never longer than 10 continuous days, which means that redistribution can be determined and different. In addition, these workers continue to be subject to the Labour Act, which, relating to the schedule of working hours and the use of vacations, always guarantees the achievement of replacement holidays immediately after the completion of the work for which they could not use it. It is also important to point out that on its schedule of working time, working days and days of rest and work isolation workers will give their written consent, and will therefore not be exposed to the abuse of this institute because, if they do not give consent, they will not suffer adverse consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21477	Obviously, here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We'll stay with our amendment. So we believe that it is really necessary to prescribe in this newly proposed article. 123.b. that it is indeed necessary to enter the last, additional 8th century, which explicitly states that the worker whose working time has been redistributed in the way prescribed in Article 4 of that new article, so that the worker is entitled to rest or on days of the same duration, so in the same number of days. We believe that it is necessary to prescribe this in order to avoid any misunderstandings, to avoid any possible interpretations of this right of workers, and therefore we think that it is really important that this article is explicitly, that item, I'm sorry, explicitly in the law. In addition, if I'm not mistaken, what you're saying is that the worker, by his signature, is that the article provides that the worker agrees with his signature, in fact the proposed article does not, if I'm not mistaken, say that the worker agrees with his signature to be deployed to another post, so to another institution. As regards redistributed working hours in the same institution in which such provision works, the article does not stand. Therefore, we remain with our proposed amendment and ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21479	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21481	Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21482	Final draft law supplementing the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 72. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, which the government's representative did not accept during the amendment's statement, and we will then vote on the amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 120 MPs and MPs voted, 38 for, 1 abstention, 81 against, and the amendment has not passed and we are going to vote on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Social Welfare Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 128 MPs and MPs voted, 120 for, 1 abstention and 7 against, and thus passed the Law supplementing the Social Care Act. Report by the President of the Supreme Court on the State of Judgment for 2019 He's the President of the Supreme Court. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2019 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs voted, 75 for, 1 abstention and 50 against, and thus the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the home constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21741	Let's go to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, second reading, P.Z. No. 13. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative and Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21742	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. We have before us amendments and amendments to the law that raises the quality, safety, width and speed of services provided by the authorities of the state administration to Croatian citizens. At first, I would like to stress that the Croatian documents we now have are made in accordance with the world's highest standards, and the Croatian ID card has been accepted as a high level of security credential for accessing electronic services in other Member States. In these amendments and additions to the law, we assure our citizens that this is how it will be in the future or that they will be more advanced. Furthermore, the process of issuing ID cards is open to Croatian citizens as soon as possible. I remind our citizens that they can get a ID card within 3 days, and this is all thanks to the advanced processes in the MUP and to the legal person who, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is in charge of drawing up this document. The Republic of Croatia shall provide its citizens with an electronic identification document at a favourable price and short release deadlines. The solutions we are already applying provide electronic services that can be submitted electronically for passport and driver's license and also request their delivery at home. I'm just going to give you a brief record of the number that's been released over the past few years. For example, 2018. 599,338 IDs were issued, so almost 600,000, last year 565,524, and this year, in the first 11 months 472.927, but I must point out, you are certainly aware of that, that here has been voted, are amendments to the Law on the ID which, during the course of the Coronary’s epidemic, citizens can and can continue to use their documents, such documents are currently 126,704, but they can continue to use them until the epidemic is over, which would mean that in fact it has already been issued, in order to issue around 600,000, almost 600,000 cards and this year. The proposal is intended to facilitate these changes and additions and further facilitate the communication of citizens with the state, provide interoperability services with other EU Member States, facilitate travel with fewer counters, but also the times our citizens spend on various administrative tasks, and therefore further contribute to the further digitisation of the society that our citizens support and expect and which they are using abundantly today. For example, over 36 million people have accessed various electronic services in the e-Citizens over the past period, and there has been a significant increase in the number of qualified signed, qualified documents in 2019, at which point it was 130,000, while in 2020 it increased by 337% and was up to now 569,652. All this data suggests that citizens are strongly interested in using, both a trust service and all services offered in the e-Citizen system. The adoption of these amendments and additions will allow our citizens not only a basic identification document, but also a means for faster, easier and simpler electronic communication with the state administration in the pursuit of the activities they need in a number of life situations, than the application of the marriage intention, the registration of the child's birth, I hope that there will be as many of these applications, the submission of passport applications, the driver's license, requests for the issue of the tachography card, the island's IDs, applications for court records, tax solutions, health and pension insurance and 70 other services offered to citizens through the E-Citizen system. In the numerous discussions we have in this assembly, we often ask whether the solutions we make are in line with the European environment and the level of such services reached in the most advanced countries? We believe that this segment is one of those that we can rightly say that we have fully achieved. The result, as a result, is no coincidence, it is the result of continued efforts and investments in people and infrastructure, knowledge and capacity that the Republic of Croatia today has and has. I'll remind you it's 2015. For the first time, the electronic identity card on which certificates, identification certificate and qualified signatures are stored has been issued to our citizens in accordance with European legislation. The first certificate allows identification and access to electronic services such as services available in the system of e-Citizens I was just talking about and the second one is used for the purpose of qualified electronic signature of documents and fully replaces the government signature in accordance with European Regulation 910/2014. The biometric data are already on the Croatian passport, and this upgrade proposed by the final proposal of the law will enable complete, travel functionality of the ID card will also be enabled, travel with the ID card will be facilitated using all advanced technical systems at border crossings and road terminals, and personal data security will be increased in the document. This in practice means that we will be able to use this electronic ID card at travel terminals, at border crossings, or we will not have to stand in line in front of a border police officer, but we will be able to cross this border crossing at this and the ghetto. These solutions will continue to allow for a simple application to the system of e-Citizens with the highest level of security, and given the fact that a growing number of citizens today use digital technologies on mobile devices further direction of technology development will certainly require the development of the functionality of the ID card to be used on mobile devices. Therefore, this final draft law allows in its new Article. 2.St. 6th and 7th and qualified to sign documents via mobile devices in a secure manner. Of course, this creates a normative assumption, and after the adoption of the law, it will come to the development of an application that will then make it possible. Amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the government are a step forward in strengthening the security of IDs and residence documents issued to citizens of the Union and members of their families. What does that really mean? This means that Member States have been Member States since the date of application of the Regulation, i.e. on 2 August 2021. be obliged to issue identity cards containing, among other things, biometric identifiers, identity card holders or facial image of the identity card holder and fingerprints and two fingerprints in interoperable digital formats. I think it is good to look back at those parts of these amendments that the European Regulation leaves to national legislation to write them themselves as the possibility of using electronic personal, e-functional identity cards, period of duration and so forth. I am stressing here an amendment that provides that the identity card and identification certificate is to be given to the child from birth, which will allow the parent to have documents and to communicate electronically with the public administration bodies for the child through the e-citizen system, and to provide a basis to enable the integration of the functionality of the identity card and health card. For you, and I believe the esteemed representatives are also important to the Croatian citizens, and this information about the validity of the identity cards that have already been issued, which are used, so that the identity cards issued under the 2015 ID card Act, therefore this last valid with the period of validity of 5g. and IDs issued under the provisions of the earlier 2002 law. with a validity date of 10.g. they are valid until the expiry date and will not be changed, so they do not need to be changed. Cards issued to persons aged 65 years and over without a period of validity pursuant to the provisions of the applicable 2015 identity card Act. They shall cease to apply on 3 August 2031 and shall be liable to replace them with identity cards issued under the provisions of this Act. Exceptionally, this does not apply to persons who will be able to use them permanently on 2 August 2021, so that the date of application of this law is 70 or more years. Cards issued without a period of validity pursuant to the provisions of the 2002 Act. The citizens will continue to benefit after 3 August 2031. and are not required to replace them with identity cards issued under the provisions of this Act, as such persons will be 70 or more years of 2.8.2021.g. Cards issued without a period of validity under the provisions of the 1991 Law on the ID card, hence the first Croatian ID code, shall cease to apply on 3 August 2026. and persons are obliged to replace them with identity cards issued under the provisions of this law for reasons that those oldest Croatian ID cards do not contain the minimum safety standards that are needed today. In short, I would just say that the final bill differs in smaller elements than the bill. In particular, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, the age limit for the issue of such identity cards has been amended for persons who, until now, have been issued with a period of time for permanent persons older than 65, this proposal will be issued to persons who have completed 70 years of life, but unlike the first, from the proposal for a period of validity of their identity cards will be 40 years in the first, the draft law was permanent. This is because in reading, machine-reading I.D. can happen not to recognize this machine permanently so that, in accordance with the experiences of other countries, we suggest that such I.D.s be issued with a period of 40 years, so 30-40. or, or more, so are other EU Member States. And I would point out that also in relation to the proposal for a law that was in the first reading of this text that was before you were amended the provisions that prescribed the obligation of the parent to participate in the process of issuing a child's ID card, that is, the obligation of both parents to participate. In law enforcement, a number of problems arise when child ID cards are issued when one parent for objective reasons has not been able to participate in the process of issuing a ID card, so these proposed changes allow any parent, as a legal representative of a child, to submit a request and to take over a personal card for their child. Those provisions are also in line with the Family Law. Of course we couldn't, we have certain remarks that we couldn't accept. I would briefly point out what the applicant did not accept from the proposals tabled at committee meetings and at a plenary debate. The Committee, the proposal for representatives of Miroslav Bulj and Miroslav Tudjman under which the Republic of Croatia should bear or consider the possibility to bear the cost of issuing ID cards to certain categories of citizens, as this law does not allow us to resolve it, but under this law a solution is made to determine the price of the identity card, so it is possible to sublegal acts in the event of an assessment that it would be necessary and useful for certain citizens to be exempt from paying the price. As regards the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and Representatives Anka Mrak-Taritash, Ruzice Vukovac and Miroslav Tuđman to extend the validity deadlines of the identity cards, I must point out that their duration is dependent on the duration of the chip, in which the certificates are stored. The manufacturer guarantees the length of these chips from 3 to 6g. Depending on the data contained in it, any longer could not guarantee that the identity card would be functional. As regards the proposal for a parliamentary representative, MP Anka Mrak-Taritash points out that a personal, personal ID card is added to the functionality of the health card and driver's license that this bill contains a provision whereby the form of the identity card may also include a space for the registration of the data that the holders of the ID card have issued, determined according to specific regulations and storage of that data on the personal card chip. It is prescribed in Art. 6. where the new section 3 is added to which we hold is open, the possibility to add to the identity card, for example, data relating to insurance in the health insurance system, which would transfer the functionality of the health card to the identity card, and would stop the need to issue health cards. But there is also a need to take extra steps, but the normative possibility has been achieved. As far as the driver's license is concerned, we have a different situation here. The appearance and content of the driving licence form is prescribed by Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006. and, therefore, the identity card cannot contain the functionality of the driver’s licence. As regards the comments made by SDP's representative Zeljko Pavić, who asked whether it was possible for other service providers to issue these certificates with confidence, I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2015, so the Government of Zoran Milanovic made a decision determining the Agency for the Commercial Activity of the AKD d.o.o. trusts the conduct of technical making and issuing of qualified certificates, and thus the model in which the roles of issue, the role of the business in the production of electronic identity cards and the issue of certificates are inseparably linked, therefore, in one legal person. This model has so far proved to be based on security and financial and technical advantages. It was both a remark and a Mrs. MPs Dragana Jeckov to revise the amount of criminal sanctions, we have considered, but we have also found that they are the appropriate severity of the violations that they are for which they are prescribed. Honorable MPs and MPs, here I have given the basic signs of this law and the differences and I am ready to move forward on to all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21743	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And we have replicas. [[You don't understand the attacks on the bench.]] Please Secretary of State, stay here and we have replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21744	My dear secretary. Here, as you mentioned last time in the debate, I was talking about how we should allow other trust providers to place their certificates on their ID cards, since this provision of the law currently laid down in the Personal Card Act is not good because it is contrary to European laws or law in the section governing the protection of competition. The fact is that the government of Zoran Milanovic has determined and defined that the issuers of ID cards will be AKD after that I don't know why and how it came to be written somewhere that the certificates will be issued by the AKD. However, today there are no longer technical obstacles that these certificates can be issued by any other publisher, so I ask you to reconsider that. I'll talk about it in my debate, and I wrote the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21745	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I'll repeat that it's 2015. The Government adopted on 24 June 2015 a decision on the establishment of a legal person authorised to carry out personal identity card transactions, I repeat, therefore, is in charge of the AKD for making ID cards, printing forms, keeping records of ID cards and issuing qualified certificates. Of course, in the meantime, there is a strong development in technical and technological terms so that the government will consider whether there is a need. So far, we have not established the need for other legal persons to issue certificates. This model I say proved safe, financially and technically good and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21746	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21747	Secretary of State. This change of card with this law we have a chip... information to be collected from our citizens and to be controlled. [[You don't understand the speaker because of the microphone.]] What is the protection of cyber attacks that we've had recently in the Republic of Croatia, have you thought about that? And it's very important that this second financial aspect, which is that it doesn't all fall on the burden of citizens. Any changes that come to the issue in the Republic of Croatia, and now, in the case of ID cards, fall on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that there should be a financial framework here that should not go on the burden of citizens, that this should be a source of funding and it is very important already when we have colleagues and colleagues, that it is time to introduce an electronic vote that would facilitate and be much fairer in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21748	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21749	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. All indicators suggest that the Croatian ID card is an extremely secure document, these amendments and additions to the law will allow further technical improvement of this document, but it needs to be continuously worked on, how states and governments certainly create a digital environment, of course there are those who try to compromise this digital environment and it is a permanent process. We will do our best to remain safe and make this document advance. As far as finances are concerned, I said in the introduction, we tried to make the price more favourable for Croatian citizens, I repeat the price of the ID issued in the ordinary procedure is 70.50 kuna, and for older people and children it is cheaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21750	The next replica is Commissioner Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21751	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. Please explain a little bit more in detail what it means to functionally connect your ID card and health card, what does that mean and how it is implemented? Have you also taken whatever it takes to make this functional merger feasible and possible in practice or is the system ready? I also want to know how you're going to explain to the citizens and introduce them to new functionality. I'm interested in who the chip manufacturer is and what is the total price of making a new ID card because regardless of who pays these 70 kunas the total cost in any case goes to the burden of taxpayers. So, a few questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21752	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21753	Thank you. Yeah, a lot of questions, I don't think I'm gonna be able to answer anything at this time, and for some, of course, we don't have reliable information yet. As for the merger of identity cards and health cards, first contacts, conversations were made and it was concluded that this was possible. The amendment of this law is the first in line, following changes to the regulations governing health insurance. The chip will likely store the number of insurance companies according to which health services record who is the insurance company by which the owner of health insurance is legalized, but possibly some other information. The price of such a document is not yet known and cannot be known at this time, but as is the identity card, so it will work to make the integrated identity card more favourable to Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21754	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21755	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Secretary of State. In your presentation, you stated that this proposal has two objectives, on the one hand, to further protect the data properties of all our citizens, and on the other hand to facilitate the use of personal documents. Among other colleagues, Dalia cited the example that there is a possibility of connecting health and personal. In your debate, you also stressed that the identity card can be used as a travel document, so you can only further explain a little about which countries would this concern, only the neighbouring, EU member states or generally as a travel document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21757	Mr. Representative, the main reason for these amendments, therefore, is the transposition into the Croatian legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, so the strengthening of the security of identity cards and other documents which exercise the right to free movement. So, this, these changes will actually enable this identity card to completely replace the passport, travel documents and will be used in all countries, so not only in EU countries but also in other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21758	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? There isn't. I am opening the debate, the first to apply for the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21759	Thank you very much. My people, there's another one before us. new cards, chipped cards, as said by secretaries in the introduction of a memory chip card that should facilitate citizens' electronic capabilities and many benefits. However, there are also certain questions that we have asked in our first reading. First of all, it's a financial framework, and who's going to pay for it, will they pay the citizens or will they be provided for in frequent changes, due to frequent changes in state money? I'm sorry he didn't find himself, he mentioned the secretary of state, and the initiatives that were. in the first reading, which did not find money for people mainly in this covid crisis budgetally because all of these changes are common and common mainly with regard to documentation falling on the burden of citizens. It is very important that the safety of the cards is if we are talking about the possibility that they will be able to connect and the health card and the numerous other options that will be served, which will be this on that chip stored, means it is very important to be safe because of cyber attacks we have witnessed that recently was a cyber attack on, to, to, to, to, to, to, to the systems in Croatia, so that many citizens and institutions are even these e-mails, I don't know how many numbers were, but there was a huge number of these e-mails that entered the codes, so we simply have to take care about whether there will be data stored, private, personal, personal citizens, and watch how it does not allow to protect those data that will be on chips, memory chips of these IDs. You have listed here and many benefits regarding the e-Citizens are not going to triangulate the signature of the government but will be able to solve this problem and speed it up on the basis of mobile, smart cell phones, give people the opportunity not to waste time, which is positive and we're going to accept it. However, here we must start to talk about what we have to change with this technical improvement in society and what can encourage us to solve problems as key problems such as the problem of an example of an electronic vote, in the Republic of Croatia many people have largely moved out lately and they do not have the ability to vote, and we are giving and investing in new technologies, which citizens will pay, and these same people will not have the opportunity to vote, so we need to watch other laws as soon as possible because what is most important in democracy are election elections. So the elections that the people can choose their representatives in representative bodies by electronic means, which is targeted in Croatia, are targeted at stopping this one. We see in the covid crisis that electronics do not solve many things, so it is possible for parliamentary representatives to be able to use video links of various channels to vote, debate, and what is good. However, I think that just changing cards for certain things, and not using other tools is not good. Once again, the most important problem here is the financial framework and who will pay for it. Unfortunately, it will be paid by the citizens, as will any change so far. The second is the security of this system being implemented because a number of data will be stored on the chip. With driving is also not only with health care, you mentioned the numerous options that can be ic with the driver's particular problems that could not be this problem with this, but you can find a way that in one document, but if we invest so much, this will cost both the server and all the expensive and management of this and maintenance and protection, this will be invested in this to make it easier for the citizens. But if it makes it easier for the citizens, then we have to use all the tools and possibilities, because this tribal would be an extended hand in the essence of making life easier for our citizens, entrepreneurs and everything we have today's problem is the time of the roast, waiting in line in the administration, it should be behind us. Once again, I stress, find the means to make citizens and taxpayers, the debtors don't cost frequent changes, changes in personal documents, that's first. Secondly, it's a matter of security and it's really the most important thing that's simply in that server on chips that will send the ID server will be the personal data of people who have to be protected, the maximum safety protection is that this project that we're currently implementing is a safety project, if there's no protection, and there are all data, and today we know that it's very easy to attack these servers that the sea comes to a problem and we need to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21760	The next debate is the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21761	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. We therefore comment on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the ID card before the House of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. If we go back only a few months, we can remember that the I.D. Law was changed in April this year. The day before yesterday, we changed the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Publishers against Infectious Diseases that we changed just a few months ago. Europe warns us that we are an insane society, and instead of going towards normative discharges, we are ready to convince the public that we are essential and crucial to this very change and supplementation as if without it the whole community were going to fail. EU Regulation 2019/1157 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the strengthening of the security of the personal identity of Union citizens and of residence documents issued to citizens of the Union and members of their families who exercise the right to free movement entered into force on 1 August 2019. From my first reading, I had an unanswered question. So that's why it hasn't joined a single amendment, but we have a change in 2.g. 2 changes in the same year? The amendment to the law states that the cards, which will be valid in the 5th year, as the State Secretary has explained to us today, but remains unclear to me, which leaves a country that has such a weak economy as Croatia, a country that records such a huge decline in GDP, tossing itself and its citizens at an additional cost every 5 years. where the Regulation itself provides for the possibility, and Article 1(2) thereof. 4. which defines the period of validity of the ID card and says that the shortest period of validity of the ID card is 5.g. and the longest 10. Which is why we did not use the maximum time limit and immediately prescribed by law that the IDs are valid for 10 years. and all that technically followed? In this way, we would reduce the citizens' double cost to just one every 10 years. If I understand correctly the legislator’s representative, so the secretary of state, the chip that will be installed into the new ID cards will be valid for the next 5 years, so whether we could immediately install the chip or memory card, i.e. The electronic record we're talking about today, the one that's worth 10 years. And thus to save the citizens and the state? On the Committee on Legislatives, HS's representative also presented information on how data can be stored in this memory card from other resolutions, e.g. driver's license, health card, child birth data, so we heard it today. But it is now a task for other institutions, it is a task for new requirements, for a new administration, it means for new order to our citizens. I am interested in what kind of inter-resorship cooperation we have between the ministries themselves, as well as other bodies of the state administration, could we, by coordinating between the mentioned bodies, avoid new costs and immediately use the memory card provided for and implement other personal documents in it? That would be extremely important to our citizens. If in the law-making procedure we were to respect the envisaged procedure which is clearly defined by the provisions of the Act on Impact Assessment, which speaks in itself of the obligation of inter-resorship cooperation between bodies, then these failures would be less and less. The specific objective of the regulation's impact assessment process is precisely to promote cooperation and cross-resorship coordination of the central authorities of the state administration in the law-making process. I remind you that the Act on the Impact Assessment of the Rules adopted by this government in 2017. Art. 12. The preliminary assessment provides for the direct effects of the rules to be adopted or proposed, in particular those of economic effects, social impacts, labour market effects, environmental effects, human rights protection and effects on competition. On the results of such an impact summary, we too should be acquainted in this tall home. We continue to believe that the procedure for the adoption of a law which lacks a form of statement on the assessment of the effects of the rules based on Article. 174. The Rules of Procedure of HS should be an integral part of the draft of this law and other laws and, as such, should have been delivered to the Assembly MPs, with the very proposal of the law in mind, such a procedure is defiled and incomplete. I will try to point out this lack entirely until the application of the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations is done, until inter-resorial cooperation between institutions in Croatia, but also until consistent and responsible articles and provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the HS are applied. So the mentioned article of the Rules of Procedure says, quote. "In addition to the proposal for a bill, the applicant will also submit a report on the consultation of the interested public, and an indication of the assessment of the effects of the regulations in accordance with the specific regulation." Notice, we didn't get that statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21762	Next debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21763	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club welcomed the compliance with EU Parliament regulations during the first debate, as well as the technical and technological progress that we mentioned and drew attention to the provisions of the article. 2.St. 4th and Article 2. 9th century 3. In particular, we noted that the provisions of the Amendment Act of the Personal Card Act in the part in which it prescribes a mandatory provider of trust services which is only authorised to issue identification and signature certificates on ID cards are not in accordance with EU law governing the protection of competition on the internal market, as this allows for the abuse of the ruling position in the market for the provision of trust services in the Republic of Croatia by one entrepreneur. The government, i.e. the argument that the government made in 2015 a decision relating to a trust service provider to issue certificates is no longer a good argument. Meanwhile, major technological changes have occurred, new technologies have been developed in this area and the decision to be amended and cited, and we know that it would not be the first and last to be changed. It is indisputable that the order art. 2.St. 4. Proposals of the Law amending the Law on the ID card under which each identity card issued to persons from 18 to 70 years of age has been issued. It shall contain an identification and signature certificate, which shall give the legal person authorised to draw up IDs in the ruling position on the trust market, as it enables that legal person to issue several million identification and signature certificates. This enables the legal person authorised to draw up IDs by means of this regulation to provide a significant market power in relation to other trust providers while other trust providers are disabled by the same regulation in providing their services on the relevant market in relation to the issue of certificates on their identity cards. Such regulation restricts the market for the provision of consumer-damaging services as it is not possible for them on their identity card or on mobile devices to issue signed certificates of other authorised trust providers primarily in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, at EU level, which also satisfy these organisational, technical and security measures for the issue of equivalent certificates. I already talked and explained last time that there are currently 3 authorised trust service providers in Croatia, that 2 trust providers are state-owned, of which is one company, and one is an agency. The provider of trust services which has the longest experience in providing these services to the Republic of Croatia and state-owned agencies and which operates exclusively on the commercial principle in that part of business. It is important to know that the establishment and maintenance of IT infrastructures related to the provision of trust services is very complex, complex, demanding and expensive, so it is another reason why the applicant should not prevent competition. Since one of the most important objectives to be achieved in the coming period is informing business processes in state administration bodies and providing services to our citizens through digital means, we find it advisable to connect, consolidate and optimise all state IT infrastructures related to individual services in the Republic of Croatia, including trust service providers' infrastructures. There is no legal or real obstacle that these amendments to the Law on the ID of citizens would not allow them to decide, at their own free will, on the provider of trust services whose certificates they wish to have on their identity card. Finally, it will have to be possible for the data concerning the driver’s license or health card to be entered in some way whether it will be given to the same legal person again, I don’t think that it would be good because it actually imposes on a will that is not good again. Therefore, there is no legal or real obstacle that these amendments to the Law on the ID of citizens would not allow citizens to decide, at their own free will, on the provider of trust services whose certificates they wish to have on their identity card, at least in respect of signed certificates, because of the provision of the Article. In order to issue an identity card containing 1 or 2 certificates, the applicant is obliged to conclude with the trust service provider a certification contract defining the rights and obligations of both parties. So if our citizen wants to have a certificate on his ID card, he has to go anyway and sign a contract with a trust provider that will put his certificate on his ID card. In this case, it must go to one point, to one, to one, to one legal person and take a certificate which is there, regardless of whether there may already be a certificate by the other legal person, issued by the trust service provider. We therefore urge the adoption of amendments related to this topic, to make the proposed amendments to the bill, and in particular a small step towards the consolidation and optimization of IT infrastructures needed to provide trust services, as this small step would also be a major step in the established practice of forming and defining IT infrastructures in the Republic of Croatia. Our amendment reads in Art. 2.St. 4. which reads as follows: “The trust provider who performs the certification tasks referred to in Article 2(2) and (3) of this Article is a legal person who is authorised to produce IDs is changed and the trust provider who performs the tasks of issuing certificates referred to in Article 2 and 3 of this Article is a legal person who is a trust provider and fulfils the technological assumptions for the tasks of issuing certificates defined and publicly published by a legal person authorised to produce IDs”. If the amendment is not accepted, if we pull the parallel a little bit, it would be as if you paid all the civil servants and tenants their personal income, but you conditioned that they had to spend it in one single store. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21764	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21765	Dear colleagues and colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the 9th month, this law on the government's proposal, with the presence of a representative of the relevant MP, and the support of the parent committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, was in first reading and received the support of 135 parliamentary deputies. We generally agreed that it was a quality and necessary novelty of the 2015 law. which first started issuing an electronic identity card with an identification and signature certificate to Croatian citizens. In mid-year, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Regulation on strengthening the security of the Union's citizens' identity cards and residence documents issued to citizens of the Union and members of their families, which exercise the right to free movement and which also implies a chip with biometric identity identifiers of the identity card holders. This Regulation, and we heard it from the proposing representatives, will apply directly in all Member States from 2 August 2021. Why did we support these changes? Because they are just like the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019. focus on achieving higher security standards, but also on greater use opportunities within a single European space. As said in previous discussions, modern life and modern technology require more and more quality and secure documents and documents to access as many services as possible, which means technical improvements that require the creation of a new document and which will enable it. As a result, we hold the need to support the newspaper that brings about the amendments and additions to the Law on Personal IDs that are in front of us. And we cannot possibly agree that this law is unnecessary, that it is a matter of excessive over-normation because it is aimed at quite concrete solutions and conveniences for Croatian citizens. There's a certain amount of over-noding in our system. In particular, people from the real sector and entrepreneurs who often talk about it can talk about it, but in this, there is no change in the laws. We could, as some said, immediately install into our new 10-year-old ID chip, as Estonia did, which therefore had to change 600,000 identity cards for its citizens and return to the model that applies Croatia. Why? Because the solution has proved to be bad, bad, and safety and reliability and speed. By the way, Estonia is a synonym for providing digital services in the EU and, without reason, the EU has not prescribed a limited security period for the duration of the certificate depends on the strength of the cryptographic component. I would also like to stress that with regard to the cost of activation of the electronic part of the identity card, which is one of the papers of this law, it will be free of charge. After this activation, citizens will also be able to take over software solutions for mobile devices for free of charge, applying to the system of e-Citizens will also be easy with the highest level of security, as well as valid electronic signature via mobile phones. So there are no claims that all the costs of preparing and drawing up new cards are transferred to the burden of citizens, although it stands for MP Oreshkovic to pay me personally out of his pocket the cost of his 70 ID card and something kuna as much as it is now, or to pay by means of the state budget, in either case Croatian citizens pay for it. And I think that we should raise awareness in HS because in many cases it is mentioned that something that is paid from the state budget is not a cost for Croatian citizens and that the cost of Croatian citizens should be transferred in many cases to the burden of the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, these changes are not arbitrary, they are not unnecessary, nor are they about changes for changes of which Croatian citizens have nothing. On the contrary, we are witnessing the opening of new opportunities to use the electronic functionality of ID cards, and we encourage the MUP to continue working in cooperation with authorised companies to further develop them in order to continuously increase security, prevent identity theft and other manipulation, and to increase the practical application and usefulness of a personal identity card for our citizens in carrying out numerous actions and jobs in relations with state and public authorities. I think it is quite short to finally look back at the parts of these amendments that the European Regulation leaves to national legislation to write them themselves as the possibility of using the electronic functionality of the identity cards as a basis to enable the integration of the functionality of the personal and health card that this was about, which is, of course, a representative club welcomes and encourages. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing the systematic and continuous efforts of the competent ministry, which, through the performance of this most important identification document, pays great attention not only today but throughout the time since the first free and independent Croatian state card in 1991. when we have not yet had a single legal entity in Croatia that could do the job at all and which has constantly increased the availability and coverage of services provided to citizens by the authorities of state and public administration. I will therefore remind myself once again that the Croatian documents we now have are made in accordance with the world's highest standards and that the Croatian ID card has been accepted as a high level of security credential for accessing e-services in other Member States, and that we ensure that these changes and additions to our citizens are thus future. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the adoption of this law, convinced that it meets the basic preconditions that we are obliged to provide for our citizens. New opportunities for facilitating communication with the state and public authorities, interoperability with other EU member states, facilitating travel, reducing the number of tents, and the times our citizens spend on various administrative jobs. All this contributes to the further development of the digitisation of society that our citizens support, expect and which they are using today. We therefore call on the other MPs and representatives of this high house to support these efforts and accept the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21766	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash via video link, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21767	... The assembly, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. [[Speaker not enabled]] Here we are in front of us in the second reading of the amendment and addition of the Law on IDs. In the first reading we made a series of remarks, from these remarks something is, in fact, almost nothing, accepted by the board, as is usual, but we have one newspaper to highlight, which is when it comes to children's IDs, about children's identity cards, and we think it's good and it's efficient and it's left. What we discussed in the first reading, some of the parliamentary representatives, was in that group of comments they did not accept, and the rest remained. One topic is the validity of 5 years. or related to the certificate, and the second topic is the way in which all the data on the identity card will be defined, who will manage the team and what will happen here. So, our citizens when they listen to us or the result after this is going to be, wait a minute, what happened to them again, which way did they come up with to change those ID cards again? So on the one hand you have form, and on the other hand you have content. The form is that we have a regulation that is at EU level, that we are EU members, that we need to adapt, that we need to have around the same documents, which is fine. So, and on the other hand, it's been a while, we remember who we remember a little longer or we're a little longer in this world that you once had a ID card, you got her, she was worth it permanently, and then we watched each other's photos as whoever looked 5 or 10 years ago, even those photos that were on her ID were in a lot of cases didn't even look like the one who had a ID card. But then things change. We live in another world, we live in a world when information has a faster flow. But we have to live in the world when we really need as little paper as possible, not to say as little documents as possible. And we need to adapt to that, and we need to take care of that. What pisses me off and always pisses me off is that on the one hand I feel like we're really keeping track, we're satisfying the form, we're harmonizing with certain regulations, we're allowing it to be through the e-citizens of some stuff, and then on the other hand, you have a situation that, regardless of everything together, you still have to physically come and do something physically. The question is, how long does it have to be done? One good-looking example I'm using this I.D. card just to point out and say the following. So, the example I want to say is about the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. So, we have an e-builder's license, all documents related to this part can be provided, so all those who submit the request can be delivered via video link, video links, or via mail, but when it comes to restoration, so Zagreb and the surrounding areas behind the earthquake then all those who submit the request will have to physically come to the ministry and physically at the ministry in the office to submit a request. In fact, I'm telling you, on the one hand, we're trying, we're saying we're going to have everything digital, we're going to make it possible to live in one new world, the world of e-citizens, and on the other hand, when you see it in real life, it doesn't work that way. And in my first reading, and I repeat that, and now, I've been pointing to this problem for five years. the connection to, therefore, the certificate or biometric data makes it appear to me that it is 5.g. He really needed to think it over and see if it was realistic for him to be 5 years old. or that we really have something longer because you have to keep an eye on us in Croatia about 4 million, there are also people who absolutely work well in the world of e-citizens, who are buying on the Internet, who are de facto from their apartment, now we're all more or less, here I am coming from my apartment, possibly living in this one virtual world without the real world, but there are also people who aren't like that and they're sure to wonder what their 108th time has come to change your identity cards and that's why we should have made a step. In the provision, one provision of the law states that, therefore, they are to suffer and that other data can be placed. In my first reading, I specifically emphasized the data relating to health care, so instead of a health card, you have everything on your ID card, I mentioned the driver's license, I mentioned something else. In response, the proposer in his reply to me said it was possible to do so, but it is necessary to amend the laws of the area, therefore from the health care authority, and that the driver’s licence is not possible to do so. What's good is that the data we're going to have on our I.D. has room for other information. But what's not good, it's not good, all the time we've been meeting, that our left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. So the key question is who will manage or the key question is the secrecy of the data, the key question is who will manage all these data, the key question is really to make sure that if we go to a new ID card, that there can be other data on it, that we really work with one document, that all the other documents that we have now, really, really go into history, and not just formally. You need to sit at the table, you need to sit down all those ministries whose jurisdiction is to issue certain documents, see what needs to be done and come up with a set of laws that amends it and which is clearly defined the way it is done. I have to remind you that when this government in the former council wanted, instead of the inspection of the different resources to have one inspection in one place, so this great inspectorate, then we got a set of laws, there were about 60 laws that needed to be changed, which changed so that it could work. If that's possible then it should be possible now. I was expecting to admit that the promoter between the first and second readings will work a little hard, so not only is "the application not accepted" although there is room for everything else but we have done certain meetings in the meantime, we have made certain arrangements, it will be possible to do so and that way. Of course, the promoter didn't do it, which I have to admit unfortunately doesn't surprise me, I wish we could make such a step. Finally, we live in another time, we live in another world, we live in, in another way, and this identity card no matter how much some of us liked it or didn't like it for a step to have documents the same as we have documents, as do EU members. I am one of those and I will always stand up and I think it's a good thing that Croatia is a member, that it's a good step, that in these times of crisis it's proved actually what it is and the benefit of all our citizens, so in this context it's okay. But what every one of us rides around here all the time is like he's never gonna meet. Therefore, when we go in such a step, pick up all the resolutions, see what is possible and do so, and I am sure that the answer would not be that the remark would not be accepted but the answer would be that, as possible, we could have talked to all the resolutions and we would come in another case and make the changes and additions that are necessary in this regard. Here's a video link that I once again have to use these, this little minute of what I have, so the professional services of the assembly are doing a great job, the video link is working. I'd much rather be there in the assembly than be home, but that's how it is, it's possible to work like this. So, those parliamentary deputies who want to participate in the debate can absolutely do it, and indeed our professional services are at our service maximum, even when we're going crazy and we think we should do it one way or the other. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21768	Thank you. Following individual debates, Dalya Oreskovic, the first respected representative, is the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21769	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to sum up a little bit what Anka Dark-Taritash said on behalf of the club, and I'm going to go up to what Mrs. Brown-Taritash said. Rose of the Wolf. So very often, we in HS in this assembly are bringing in acts that actually represent the transposition of the directive. In itself, it's nothing controversial, but we can say hello. This Directive and this law could briefly be presented to our citizens as a new identity card that will replace the functionality of the e-passport and, of course, no one has anything against it. However, what I resent, so I am glad that, by technology, by the chips that we are now going to install in our ID cards, we can follow trends at EU Member State level, but it hurts me that unfortunately we cannot follow trends and by the quality of governance. So, apart from the transposition of the directive, we don't really know what the new ID card is trying to achieve, except maybe to adjust the period of the ID card to the time of the manufacturer's chips, and we don't know how to answer the question of who is the manufacturer of the chips we ordered? Could we have done one study and analysis, so take another manufacturer whose chips have a longer life span? We don't even know what the price of a single chip is. And so much for transparency. Therefore, the transparency that is very often used by the ruling in their dictionary is only one empty flossula without any concrete content that could be seen in the way in which individual policies are implemented and implemented. When we talk about this non-transparentity, there is another big problem, which is the problem of poor governance, and that is why we are now a failure of society and why we will remain a failure of society. Namely, the new chip offers numerous functionality, but these functionality are not prepared in practice, saying that we will travel with a ID card instead of a passport really is not, America has not been discovered. But if we say that this identity card will combine functionality with health care, then to my question, dear secretary of state, you should have said whether the systems are prepared or not? The answer cannot be "very likely to be found in health insurance on that chip". I'm not satisfied with that answer. I would be satisfied with an answer that will clearly and decidently say, to me and to all Croatian citizens "You will no longer need a health card, you will be able to lift medicines only on the basis of your identity card", but we do not know that. So that means we haven't prepared the system at all. And as we introduce or implement some new functionality, it will happen that the duration of the ID card will already expire and we will re-enter another wave of new costs. It's also good that apparently the new chip allows for electronic signature, and we didn't really find hot water with it. And indeed, here I agree with those clubs that said why, when we were already going into one of these implementations, we didn't predict the possibility of an electronic vote, so that we would also be served with a ID card or if nothing else for the possibility of electronic signature collection, here's the local election at our door. Would it not be convenient if only with a ID card we could log in somewhere and that the system of state administration could collect signatures in this way, so we wouldn't have all those problems that are found every time we collect signatures in writing. I am sorry that the new National Development Strategy, which is in preparation, which we will be discussing in this assembly soon, mentions the word “digitalisation”, but the use of the functionality of the identity card in the direction of electronic votes, electronic elections and referendums is not mentioned anywhere. So, it's not a problem I'm texting the law, it's a questionable implementation of it, and it's going to be a questionable implementation because I say the purpose and the real purpose of this law is gone. The chip provides a number of possibilities, but unfortunately we are a state that does not know how to use these functionality in the right way, in full capacity, and clearly there is no political will because this would disappear the need for a number of employees within the system of state administration who are currently a major budgetary burden and budgetary burden. And speaking of the budget burden, I'm going to rely on everything she's said, and I'm going to make an excellent point on the lady. Rose of the Wolf. Al has another element. So, apart from the lack of analysis of the effects of regulations and consultation with the interested public is just a floscule, we don't care about that art either. The 91st century 3rd Constitution which states that any law requiring financial resources must also specify sources, and we do not know the total cost, nor are we able to say because It's not the cost of these 70 kunas for a new card. [[Intruder: Time]] but it's the cost of implementing the whole system, which you don't know. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21770	You have one replica, please remain, dear representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21771	Thank you. Dear colleague Oreshković, you have well noticed that a new ID card has been offered under the supervision of the technology, which is available to us today and how much of this data can be contained in it, and just what you mentioned, when the signatures are collected, it is very easy to agree that it is electronic. Today we have a bar that recognizes every product, so it can also ID. But what he won't skip, it's another cost to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Throughout history, we have seen several times how financial citizens are exhausted by repeating the issue of some documents that did not need and their short sustainability. I think this card should, given that technology allows it to last for a long time and that it contains far more data because it is very easy to install today with it in terms of technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21772	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21773	So I repeat, the cost of a ID is not 70 kuna a citizen pays on a counter. The cost of ID is also the chip paid by the state, and we don't know the cost of that chip. The cost of IDs is complete information implementation, as well as maintenance costs for cybersecurity. How much of this cost we don't know, so how can we pass this law and how can this be brought into contact with Article at all? The 91st century 3 which says, the constitution which says that the sources of funding for a law whose implementation requires financial resources must be listed and can be reportedly in the budget. Yeah, but I'm interested in being a citizen, and as a representative, what kind of expense is that? That's what our citizens need to know because it's all coming out of their pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21774	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to use the fact that I'm discussing the I.D. Act to warn and suggest two things that, and let's be honest, I couldn't do it while I was in the government because I had a little bit of resistance to red tape that would have been said. First of all, it's about the duration of the I.D. So, in some European countries, the identity card lasts exactly the same as we do, but with one small difference that makes it easier for citizens to remember when they run out of ID, which is that they don't run out of 10 years. After the release, from the birthday to the 10th year. After the release. Then you know when you, what year your I.D. is running out and you'll make a new one. So it doesn't require any excessively large or if it's 5. Then 5 years, it doesn't require any excessively large, major legislative change, nor any software solutions that would be this expensive now, but simply to make it easier for citizens to know when their ID is running out, much easier than this. So if, if that were the case, you would all know when your ID's running out, and now, rare among you know it, let's be honest. Then a former minister might have known better when her driver's license expired, so she wouldn't pay the fine, but it doesn't matter now. Secondly, the identity, residence and other identity card shall be proved among other things. 2015 Or '14. An island card was introduced that actually proved identity and residence based on which you had the right to a preferential price that lasted, and that card lasted 5, lasts 5.g. So now somewhere at this time a large number of islanders must change and take out a new ID card. I think all the data on the island card is also on the I.D. We don't need any other information that's not on your ID that you have to have another card for the islanders. I must admit, I was skeptical and angry when it came to being introduced because I felt that in the context of rational behavior identity and residence it was proven enough to be a personal ID. After that, we got used to it, but now after 5. When a new one is to be rewritten, the logic question arises that the data that are on, on the ID card, is once again copied to another new card, it is further bureaucratisation. However, it was then in the Ministry of the Sea, not the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, but personal data are, the data are from this MUP's records, so, in that sense, these two things that wouldn't make it difficult for the state, but to make it easier for the citizens, please suggest that when the next amendments to the Personal Card Act take into account, and if they feel useful, here I see that they were writing down what I'm kind of glad to have them, to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21776	We have two replicas, please hold. The first is Honorable Representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21777	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, of course everything you and your predecessor have said is difficult to disagree with. However, we have an example that yesterday a law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases in this small history of the Croatian independent state is the 7th in a row. And of course every law brings with it financial obligations and burdens for our taxpayers. So I'm curious whether the representatives of the ministry present here will take what they have now written into account and install into the new law, the new law proposal, so that we can vote then whether it will be and remain at party level or ruling for, the opposition against because no amendment and no opinion is respected?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21778	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21779	Thank you. Well, normally not, but sometimes we're pleasantly surprised. I've known my colleague Katic for 20 years. And I'm very rarely embarrassed by this and I can argue very constructively with it, even when we disagree, even when we disagree. It's simply sometimes an expression of a kind of showing power, but we won't. And sometimes when the water comes to, to the throat, then it's not a problem for anyone to make most of it. I very often, if he looks at it, greet my colleague, Antu Babic, with him, polemizes when, from the aspect of the opposition at the time, he attacked our government when we were opposition because he was with him in the coalition as Vice-President of the government of Mrs. A pervert who was just in charge of the resort he criticized, and every time I just told him this, he picks up there, it's your coalition partner now. So the alliances change there, they're so-called. For the purposes of note 1 to this chapter, the following definitions apply: And this will probably be considered. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21780	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21781	Your Honor, I am pleased that you mentioned another card that is used in the Republic of Croatia because it speaks in favour of the the thesis I mentioned in my speech, which is that we should at the level of the state as much as possible unite the state IT infrastructures related to certain jobs. Now let's say we have a special technology to read island IDs, especially for IDs, especially for passport scans on and on the border, and I don't know how much more specifically for a health card. We should work to unite these IT infrastructures as much as possible and make technological solutions unique to us. In this way, we will make less cost available in the country, provide a unique approach for all the jobs we do with electronic documents. Your attitude, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21782	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21783	As for connecting different registers, it reminds me in fact, the correct phrase from one film "every day in every respect we progress more and more." Of course, the increasing share of the use of information and other resources in everyday life, so 20 years ago. We didn't sit there and have smart phones, we didn't even think I did, and the laptop was what was hard, but... I'm sure it wasn't, they're telling us that we're increasingly turning to information technology, and it's increasingly showing the need for it to be, so it's connected. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say in this reform when the public administration offices went to the county I felt that the part carried out by the Ministry of Administration concerning the electoral lists should also be the home affairs of the parent offices should be ic in the administrative part of the MUP, which some countries have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21784	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21785	Dear Vice President, Proposer's representative, Your Honor. There's a Latin saying that says "Omnia mea mea mecum porto" When we talk, so everything I have is with me. That's what I carry with me. There's the least money here, the most plastics. Speaking of plastics, then what do I prove with those plastics? That I am a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, one plastic, that I am a member of the Assembly, another plastic, that I am the president of the County Assembly, the third plastic. I have my driver's license next door, and then my driver's license, that paper, it says, and it's my blood type. Then, without going into the banking section and the financial part, I'm going to go further digging through my wallet, then I'm going to find three more plastics, and imagine, "I'm sorry 4, and three are related to health services." So someone said a long time ago that I had to have plastics, but as with credit cards, so before these metal stickers, for health insurance, then I had to have a supplemental health card, and then also for a European health card. That's a lot of plastic, that's a lot of money. When we add up that money, it must be worth more to have it in one place. And even an e-Citizen if we look at today's access is no longer just going through the username and password given to you by FINA, but the one that you can get even through Internet Banking services, which is normal. So, I agree that this is about ID progress, so until the moment we can travel by plane, we can do an electronic check-in with a personal identity card issued by the Republic of Croatia. Point. The rest maybe, when and if. It's sad. It's good that at least we have it without going in now like other states have. But the fact is it only opens up some possibility, do you, when and if. You see with all these plastics that I've shown you now, and they've opened up some possibilities, but they've only opened up the possibilities until this opportunity has come to an end. Therefore, the alibi is excellent, the issue of creating a personal document on which we are finally EU citizens, an excellent alibi, for what? I'm afraid, unfortunately, not to have an efficient system, but to deal with state biferanism again. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21786	You have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21787	Thank you. My friend Fabianic, you inspired me to actually look at all the plastics I have. Some are still in the paper because of memories, but I believe that one part of our citizens is looking at you in fact realizing that of all these plastics, plastics that opens the most doors yet in this country is still a HDZ membership card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21788	Now I don't know if he has a chip or a certificate, but possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21789	Thank you. No more. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we have a break until 12 o'clock, 12 o'clock is a vote. ANNIGHT IN 11.48 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-04-0.u21796	Annual Report on the business of the Financial Agency for 2019 is the applicant of the FINA. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: “The Annual Report on the business of the financial agency for 2019” Who is in favour? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It finds that 121 MPs and MPs, 104 for, 9 abstentions, 8 against and concluded that it was proposed by the home working body. The report on the financial audit of sports associations carried out, the applicant is the State Audit Office and we will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with Article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. in accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the financial audit of sports associations is accepted." Who is in favour? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 116 MPs and MPs, 99 for, 11 abstentions, 6 against, and we concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
