ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196790	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament today is on the agenda of the bill on the extension of travel documents and I am therefore looking for a break today, simply because we need to understand that at this moment there are people to be provided with, to extend security in this period. And that is why we are asking that our proposal of the Moratorium Act be discussed tomorrow morning, together with this debate on amendments, and that tomorrow at 12 o'clock, this law be put to the vote in the Croatian Parliament. The contribution to this thesis is that this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196791	A colleague of Bernardić, a colleague of Benardić, just a little please. So, you can ask for a break on the agenda points. You're not asking this, you're asking that one other item of the agenda be discussed before it's scheduled. So now you're not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196792	Okay, I said if you extend the IDs, then the travel documents need to extend the security to the citizens that they don't have to fear paying off the loan. In particular, because the law was supported, it was supported by part of the ruling coalition's representatives on the Finance Committee. Therefore, at this point, the Finance Committee has adopted the Moratorium Bill's proposal for loans to citizens and entrepreneurs for a year, I suggest that you put it on the agenda tomorrow and vote on the moratorium tomorrow at 12 o'clock in order to provide security for people in Croatia. Citizens to continue their normal lives and entrepreneurs to continue their normal business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196793	Well, you used your request for a break in a way that I find unfair, but that's your decision. A colleague of Glasnović, you're reporting for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196794	Thank you. I'm asking for a break to discuss these two laws, a consultation from this club's party regarding IDs, IDs. It is closely related to Croats outside the country and there is also Mr. MuP Minister we are still waiting for a new law on Croatians on citizenship, this has not been settled, we are long waiting, people are worrying about the problem, the issue of these documents takes months, years. The question is that the process will be simplified or the sabotage that started long ago will continue, we know how it went. A Croat would have to, for example. from Toronto in fact Vancouver in Toronto, 6 hours summer, then you would have to carry out the Croatian language test, now according to some new announcements will not be in the new law, then you would come to Petrinjska, then you would have to go to Chernomerac, etc. This bureaucracy she, it is intended sabotage, of course, if we talk about democracy, human rights, but it is taken from people outside, these people are citizens of this Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Some have come here, they've got double taxation, they've got left money, they've got houses, they can't come back fast enough to solve the problem of seized property, property-legal relations, and the question of when the law is bound, the new law on citizenship wants to speed it up so that these people get back, to break those blockades. We've got people out there, for example. which we need, for example. The Croatian-American society of professionals can contribute to this country, but if we talk about human rights as people outside see it. The right to vote has been taken away, they don't have it, they've taken away the right to private property and, of course, the blow we see from left-wing media on freedom of faith, they hit these churches. And that would be a short one, yes. We don't play Democrats here anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196795	Okay, the break will be approved. Here you go, buddy Bull. Also a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196796	Thank you very much. Here, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. The topic is extension, one of these is identity cards because the deadlines on the measures we have are difficult to achieve, and I think that's good. But here, too, when we talk about IDs, documents, we should talk about people living in certain areas, and they can't place their products on markets. Well, since the Minister and Head of the National Civil Protection Centre are here, I am not clear that foreign products are sold in trade chains from Italy, Spain, now their strawberries, Vrgorje strawberries will not be possible, fruit material will be able to be sold in markets, and why would we not be organised in markets and I don't understand why the markets are closed, and the trade chains work where foreign import products are? Imports destroyed us, people's safety, at this point, mostly farmers are the key to the whole story. We set Croatia up and allow agricultural products to be sold on open markets with all security measures. People are in huge trouble. Not milkmen, cheesers, people who sell vegetables, fruits, they can sell their products, and they're at risk of safety. At this point there is no higher priority than self-sufficiency because the wrong policies we have led so far have shown that Croatia is an unprocessed state, an unprocessed agricultural land. Instead of inviting you to buy your home in our markets, with all the security measures, volunteers will provide better than in the trade chains of the security measure. So once again, I support this proposal made by the Government But finally open the markets [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] to enable the sale of domestic products. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196797	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue to work at 11 o'clock exactly. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER MEETING Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I announced before the break, we are discussing four laws under the jurisdiction of the MUP. I'd like to remind you, given the agreement we have reached, the promoter will speak for 20 minutes, clubs for 10 minutes and individual debates will be five minutes. I would now ask that, on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation of the law that respected Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196799	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will not speak for 20 minutes, but I assume this will be a matter, so it is four laws, so on the additions of the Law on the ID card, on road safety, on the acquisition and possession of arms and the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The additions are proposed for the reason that citizens, in the light of the circumstances of the declared epidemic, come to the counters of police administrations and stations, and that, through the reduction of close contacts of protection and citizens, as well as officials who conduct administrative procedures. For example, in 2019 and police administrations and stations, 565,524 ID cards, 284,559 driving licences and such issuing procedures were issued, unless they were electronically indicating that citizens would come twice to the registers of administrative work, when applying and for the purpose of taking over the documents made. The additions to the ID law are therefore proposed to allow citizens in the situation resulting from the Covid-19 disease epidemic to use an earlier issued identity card which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic and would allow them to take over issued identity cards within the same time limit. That I don't repeat the argument because it's the same for every law. The same would apply, therefore, to the Road Safety Act, which would have been considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic, thus allowing citizens and for certain actions to be carried out within a specified period of time, such as the check-out of a vehicle which will not be used temporarily or permanently, the acquisition of a manufactured licence, the conduct of a surveillance check and the second, may also take place for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. As regards the addition of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons, it would allow owners to use previously issued arms sheets which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the date of termination of the epidemic as well as the actions required by the prescribed law, such as the submission of a request for the issue of an armed list for weapons purchased, the delivery of assurances of medical ability or documents to have technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons, the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and the like. Finally, by supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, it is proposed to allow citizens during the duration of the epidemic to use a passport which expired for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic primarily to return to Croatia's Croatian citizens whose passport expires during the duration of the epidemic and is abroad. Here, I think it's pretty clear and I wouldn't, of course, unless there were questions that went further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196800	We have 8 replicas because 3 MPs have signed up from the SDP Club, which can be maximum 2, so please just tell each other who won't replicate because you contacted your colleague Vidović, Ostojić and Maras. You will not, well, but you will not, colleague Ostojić. Then let's take it in a row. First mate, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196801	Ministers are clear about these measures in order to reduce our citizens' physical contact in making certain documents that have expired. But I've pointed you out to one I can't tell, let's say now we have these measures that people are from their places where they can't access without this pass to other places. It's illogical, for example. that places like my Sinj, the former Sinj municipality has 6 local self-governments and, of course, it is illogical that some smaller municipalities do not have the possibility of banks, or ATMs, the elderly cannot come to that area, so whether these measures can be taken which would be healthy to expand to former agglomerations i.e. The former kind of way that these municipalities and cities are connected, it's a simple center, for example. The son is all in Sinj, so that they would facilitate communication, and the measure would abide. That's very important. And another question that I asked you briefly, what about markets and domestic products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196802	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196803	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, first of all, when we talk about passes, you know everything we do these days is about implementing epidemiological measures that need to help us to prevent the infection in Croatia from reaching exponential growth and, according to everything we see, at least in the last few days, we keep the situation under control, so the growth in Croatia is linear, it is not exponential to make it clearer. The most famous scientists in this area have warned very early, and we read very early about it and thought about it and made decisions about it, which means that if you're a week late with some decision, that the number of infected and then, associated with it, and the number that... What? Yeah, I'm sorry. [[President: Time is only running out, you finish, you have a minute.]] Okay. So we created one system that we now have, this morning there were about 520 thousand e-passes issued, so that's, we're about approaching that optimal number which then allows us all of this, as you know, from the idea to the realization. It took a few days. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196804	Comrade, just a minute, Minister, I beg you, let's hold on for a minute. Now I let go and in the next answers, I still get Look at it [[Okay, here I really didn't take care of it.]] You got it. [[I wanted to explain, but good.]] Next. [[Agreement: Markets are on the way today to talk to everything... What?]] Next. No, wait, wait a minute. Some now encourage to answer, others earn that time is up. No one threw, here, ask a colleague, Zekanovic. ... Yes, yes, e.... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't all have two minutes, we'll all have one minute, so please, Minister, then answer this question in the other. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196805	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in your public appearances, you often thank people who are on the front lines of the fight against the virus. Among them are cheerleader groups even though you never mention them but talk about young people, therefore. Just to clarify to the Croatian public, so right now in Zagreb fans' groups are engaged in 3 areas, they deliver food and medicine to older people and self-insulation people. They're on duty in the soup kitchens, doing order, social distance, and moving things to people who've suffered an earthquake. So in the context of what they are currently doing, can you explain to the Croatian public whether you will continue to insist on the Fans Act, which is being punished from 15 to 30 thousand kunas for 0.5 promills and people who violate the self-insulation of 8 thousand kunas. I mean, that's deeply unfair, so answer the Croatian public that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196807	I, the esteemed Mr. Representative, would take advantage of this occasion and thank everyone, including members of the fan groups who at this time volunteer and show solidarity with those members of society who are either part of the most vulnerable groups or simply cannot meet all those needs, primarily related to the procurement that, as we ourselves know, is limited. So, once again, I thank you all, and for the peacetime topics when the epidemic passes. As far as we're concerned, did we get into the red?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196808	No, he can't. Now let's go to Question 3, Replica, colleague Vidovic, here you go. Don't confuse my colleague Bulj with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196809	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I'm only interested in a brief and clear question. Was the government meeting really held on January 9th, as counterpart Bacic claimed the other day in connection with the coronary virus. And secondly, how is it possible, if the meeting was held that these measures had not been effective 15 or 20 days ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196810	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The Croatian government, prime minister, its associates were likely among the first to detect that something was happening in China and should be monitored. However, even then, and also today, and then especially there were still too many unknowns to talk about whether this virus would come to Europe, as it would spread, there was not enough information. However, the fact is that we were also talked about and that this epidemic did not surprise us in relation to some other countries, including us neighbouring countries, because that's how it tells us that we have linear growth, and some much larger and more developed countries with which we have watched what they're doing have lost control of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196811	Thank you. We're going to a colleague named Bilek now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196812	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that for every commendation and these four laws that are on our agenda today that we really respect all that the Civil Protection Staff and its recommendations, all that he proposes, on this side here we thank you and everyone in the Staff for the dedicated work and for the measures that have been introduced. I think we should thank everyone, including the meaning of honey. sisters, by doctors, doctors, drivers and all others, but of course, we should not forget all our other citizens, all the people who work in the building, but primarily our farmers who should worry about the self-sufficiency of our products, so on the other hand, here, I complement that question from my colleague, and the related market, you announced yesterday that you could go in a certain direction to sell products on the market under certain restrictions, so please here's the answer, when, when you can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196813	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196814	So, like when closed parts of the market opened, we included local civil protection headquarters, just as we are talking, meetings with video conferences with all headquarters and associations of cities and associations of municipalities are taking place, and it is that they know about the conditions, especially the epidemiological conditions, so a limited area, a number of people who can at one time be, a distance between sales places and the moment we get feedback like when it was in the first case with closed parts of the markets when we get confirmed information from local headquarters that all decision-making measures are being taken will be released and will be published. I expect it can probably be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196815	We're going to a fellow Panenic now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196816	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, as Minister of the Interior, I am primarily asking you, it is also related to this law that you are primarily trying to protect the population from unnecessary contacts and we welcome that. But I'm going to ask whether they're protecting themselves enough, and the cops who are in touch, they stop us every day, and they're implementing these measures that are now limiting movement, and they're in contact with a number of people. We have seen that there have also been references to the amount of equipment, enough equipment, so I ask you directly whether all police officers and officials working with citizens have sufficient means of protection, whether they have seen enough quality that the first line of defense they come to and when they come from abroad, it is the police who are receiving them that is very important that the police are protected at the highest possible level. Is that how it is in Croatia right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196817	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196818	I thank you first and foremost for showing concern for police officers and officials who are among the most vulnerable activities in this crisis. They all have protective equipment and no police officer in particular who is in contact with citizens who do not have protective equipment. What is also the fact that protective equipment is at this point the most powerful issue in the world, but we have, through and through contacts and purchases primarily large amounts of this type of protective equipment because it is not the same of course for medical staff in intensive hospitals and others, assured that Croatian police officers including other emergency services have protective equipment, and this change of e-passage which is actually checked for mobile phone contact, or close to reading the QR code is actually a contribution to reducing unnecessary physical contact or touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196819	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196820	Dear Ministers, I will first conclude that Croatia had one great fortune that it was not a European country that first experienced a coronary infection with the virus. If we were in Italy, we'd probably have an Italian script. You said a few weeks ago that they were weeks ago, that one week was very important to infect flame or suppression, so I was wondering why you didn't leave a week earlier to this extent when you saw what was going on in Italy? Is the reason you might have had the HDZ election so it didn't start with the measures because you said yourself that one week was important, so we could have been much better, if you said so well. And the second question is, did you give up on that crazy intent to track your cell phone means to Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196821	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196822	As far as these findings are concerned, we know more about this epidemic every day than we knew before. I will remind you that in 19.3. without debate, the Assembly has voted to amend the Civil Protection Act, which has given the National and Civil Protection Staff the authority to take measures on the basis of the instructions of the profession, which should then be ensured at lower levels, given that the Civil Protection Organisation and under the Constitution are in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-governments. As for the other, it's not a question from the M.O.P.'s portfolio what's important, it's that we Of course, we are thinking about all the possibilities to reduce the spread of the infection, what is the solution to this issue, and what it will look like I can't tell you at this point because it's not an internal affairs portfolio, and I think how things are developing now convinces us that in fact these methods that have already been applied and that from some other times can produce results. [[Thank you, finish your sentence.]] Of course everything will depend about how the epidemic situation will develop. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196823	Here you go, fellow Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196824	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as you know, Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake a little less than 2 weeks ago, which has further made the situation worse in the City of Zagreb related to this unfortunately crisis that we have. You said yourself that we have changed the Civil Protection Act, I can tell you that in the City of Zagreb things don't work, that people are waiting very much for the most basic things and what I would like to ask you here is to pay attention to security in the City of Zagreb, especially because a lot of people have come out of their properties and apartments and ask you to strengthen the security of the city center so that police surveillance can be greater over these properties, to ensure the properties of our citizens and on the other hand to ensure all the dangerous places from the passage because there is still a lot of construction material that can fall from these buildings. What I think, that unfortunately late in the City of Zagreb is all that insurance or reparation and insurance of these facilities, so please to secure it as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] On the other hand, I thank firemen who have been working tirelessly for 2 weeks from all over Croatia and help our citizens to bring about the purpose of certain facilities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196825	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196826	Here, I can only say what I publicly said yesterday about data on crime in the Republic of Croatia, it is in decline, probably because of all these measures of restrictions on movement and now we don't have time to analyze. As for the safety of the facilities in Zagreb, police, along with other services, immediately went out on the ground and thank God for the subsequent incidents of this kind, were not, except for the unfortunate case of the firefighter who died and, of course, the first case of the girl who died during the earthquake, so all available police forces provide not only the centre of Zagreb, but the reinforced centre of Zagreb and I really have no information at this point about having any major movement of the robbery, but I understood your message. And be assured that the police and that part of the work will be done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196827	Comrade Vlaović, you are the last to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196828	Thank you. Dear Minister, I welcome this decision to extend the deadline for extending documents to citizens not to put pressure on police administrations, but our proposal is to extend it to 60 days because I think 30 days is too short. And secondly related to the holders or holders of the licenses to carry and hold arms and hunters, as of April 1st is the new hunting season, so here's the question in which hunters can go to the hunting grounds, feed the game, worry about no poaching, prevent the spread of infectious diseases, and I think it would be good and send this message to our hunters to monitor and protect their health, but of course they also have to worry about their hunting ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196829	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196830	Thank you, very briefly, Mr. MP, this decision has been extended 30 days since the end of the epidemic was declared, so not from today or from the moment of adoption of the law, but when the Minister of Health declared the end of the epidemic since then this count is 30 days. I'd like it to be, as soon as possible, but at this point no one knows when that day is, when he'll declare the end of the epidemic. It will depend, of course, on the development of the situation. As far as hunting is concerned, we have had some enquiries, however, I must say, the epidemiological profession at this point is that hunting is not desirable because it poses an epidemiological risk, especially since hunting in Croatia, and not only in Croatia is not only hunting but it includes a series of activities before and after hunting where it would be difficult to maintain a favourable epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196831	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. No more replicas so you can go to your place. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196832	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, now, of course, in our debates, we will start from the content itself, so perhaps here is the Minister of what he hears, and what is not sure to be passed on to him, we will be the issue of the scope of the changes that have been made. Here we looked at, of course, the possibility of a delay, we'll welcome, I believe we'll all say it's reasonable, but in the extent that we've been looking for, there were possibilities of solidarity with the whole, the whole situation where we're in, where it's said, it's going to cut everything that's possible. So I'm going to ask you a question, did the proposals of these laws cut everything that could? We also have the price of issuing documents that have been in place since 2014, '15. years, so here, correct me if I'm wrong, that's when they're determined. Now, is there room to do something about this? Whether the debate at the time was for identity cards when they were introduced with an electronic chip, so 79 and a half kuna was the subject of debate, I didn't see what it was to calculate, which is the price of making the document itself, and finally whether there is now a space where something could be done and that, at least for a time in this area, we say here, we release the citizens of one part of the obligation at the moment when it's the hardest for them. I'm going to ask each other another question about IDs, and that's an opportunity to deliver something, as well as passports. So it stands out this way that the fee of 30 kuna is for the delivery of the passport to the address of the residence or residence in the event of a request by a citizen. Does it really cost 30 kuna, given the quantity it's certain that the MUP can organize a much more favourable delivery. If the online sales chain organizes for significantly less amounts and I believe that there might be space here because here we had some time ago an amendment to the laws where the funds for, collected funds for making cards for agricultural producers which they prove to be qualified to handle pesticides that charge 30 kuna suddenly become free funds. The government has proposed an amendment allowing these funds to be spent on other purposes. If a farmer pays that card 30 kuna for its production and then remains an surplus of funds then I ask you how much it costs to make a card, it's the real cost of costing. Is someone, is someone actually going to have a little earring, and then ask a similar question for this delivery, at which price, here I will say an example of Croatian post office can deliver a card. If we're saying everything now, so here's the government brought it to work the Internet portal for the sale of products, so let's go, digitize ourselves as a society whether 30 kuna is appropriate or can be significantly lower. We think it can be significantly lower at the club. I also noticed a detail relating to the question of passports, which is that their validity is being extended. The only thing I haven't noticed in this proposal is how it's aligned with other countries, because the passport is a document that travels to a foreign country. What has been the practice so far was that when you come to the border and find that your document expired, they practically treated you as an attempt to enter the country illegally. Is it possible in any other country now with a passport that pointed out the date, which we will give this extension a new legitimacy, to enter any other country. Most countries, as well as the Republic of Croatia, and this also stands on the Ministry's pages, stipulates that the passport should be worth at least 3 months or some other period.../incomprehensible/... from the moment that it would end up in that country. For example. BiH wrote a foreigner who intends to exercise the right to stay in BiH temporarily must enter with a passport whose importance is at least 3 months longer than the period on which it intends to request the approval of a temporary stay. So, by extending the passport, do we achieve any goal and that's the key question. I understand when there is a humanitarian part of the return of our citizens to the Republic of Croatia, but there is also consular representations can react quickly, so if we have the opportunity to speed up the process which is particularly charged with the speedy issue of documents, of course for Croatian citizens it should provide it at a regular price in this time, because it would certainly be inappropriate if we want to return one of our citizens back to the Republic where he will meet both the measures of isolation and actually help all those who have found themselves in this situation that now issue documents is a priority and should not create perhaps conditions as they have been. In the matter of the Minister during his presentation, I have also also warned about the issue of masks, primarily those which are called protective masks not to be cottony because in the extent in which they as police officers work with citizens must have the highest quality equipment, and for such protective masks it is prescribed that the duration is practically within one day and that should be changed and it would really be large amounts so that the police do not happen to be in any form the virus transporter and because they did not have adequate equipment. We see that Austria has imposed an obligation as of April 1st that citizens, when entering the trade, even trade chains must offer them a free mask themselves, so these days it is introduced, so I would also say it is not just legal protection that needs to be carried out, but also protection in a way that protects their officers and officers precisely so that those who might be threatened to be further protected. Once again on this, this, this, the proposal of these laws, the club of the Independent List, the young will give support, but here we will ask the Ministry to consider, in further actions and precisely some of these arguments that we have cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196833	Thank you. We are going to another club of representatives, it is the club of representatives of GLAS and respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so 4 travel documents, ID and road safety laws on roads, other words of driver's license and armed papers, all situations in which documents are required and all 4 laws relate to the extension of the document during the duration of the epidemic plus 30 days after the end of the epidemic. One fusa here I have seen is now as we sit here an amendment has come, a proposal for an amendment of the HDZ Club that requires that a formulation of the declaration of the end of the epidemic, so not only the end of the epidemic, but officially, I think it's a good thing, that it should be introduced into all these laws. Therefore, it is necessary to formalise this situation not when it seems to have stopped or, rather, that it should indeed be a formulation of the official declaration of the end of the epidemic and to tie all these dates and all extensions to it. It is clear everywhere, all four laws clearly state the name of the epidemic which is therefore Covid-19, which is also important to know that all of this, all of this extension, should, therefore, be managed in all the restrictions that are introduced in principle, and will then be abolished, but be introduced specifically to this particular epidemic, not to any other monster, not to any other elemental accident, so that we know that this is strictly related to the emergency situation caused by this virus, that we are not coming into a situation that any of these things stick together and remains after this particular epidemic. The problem that counterpart Panenic has also pointed out is that these laws extend the duration of the importance of passports and ID cards, but only with them can you get out of the country, but cannot enter any country. I think it is particularly important for people living in border areas with neighbouring countries of BiH, Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro, as well as Slovenia, so people who have a need for any reason and thus organised life to have to cross the border. Now, one way to solve this is to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries or to send on the Croatian side an official note that our passports and ID cards are valid regardless of the same date, valid until the official declaration of the end of the epidemic. Because otherwise, it does not really benefit much from this extension except that when an epidemic passes, one can extend those documents without any difficulty. But at this point I think that there would be, therefore, two possible solutions, one is either to enable at least such situations in some way to extend these documents, I mean, first of all, to passports and ID cards, or to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries and EU countries, or to be notified by official note that our passports and identity cards with which to travel can be worth, therefore, that they are valid until the end of the epidemic. Here, that's our suggestion that this measure would have the effect that seems to be intensities in these laws and club GLAS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196835	Let's go to the third debate, SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please. You mean when you get to the end? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196836	Well, Mr. President, I thought a miracle was going to happen after several years, except for what he has introduced around the law and remains in this assembly, but apparently that this bad habit, which is not to defend those laws that he should and that the arguments continue. First of all, I'd like to say that in these laws, which clearly serve to throw dust in the eyes. Here we have heard from the people who have dealt with this and fellow Panenic said this document does absolutely nothing if it is not good. What's it worth to you to get out of the country if you can't get back into it. It can be partially updated through.../incomprehensible/... through systems, through applications and so forth, but it's not a good solution. I think it should actually point out how many of these laws serve only to pet our eyes, as we do service to our people and citizens, and they're actually completely pointless. As for the day of the end of the epidemic, I don't think it should be complicated, it began the moment he declared the Minister of Health and stopped the day he issued the same document. As for the suspensions that have been made here, okay, the validity of the driver's license, etc., but I think that much more importantly in accordance with the reasoning given, which is that the aim is to keep people away from gathering, to reduce social contacts and protect citizens, it is necessary to do the same thing that the Slovenians have done, and this is a question of suspending the obligation to carry out technical checks and prolonging the validity of traffic permits. It's a situation that we have at this point and I don't know what's more dangerous than having an unsightly vehicle that's probably technically right, but it's going to be technically right or gathering in the technical inspection stations of vehicles that threaten and those who come there for those checks, and also those who, of course, have to get out of the house even though they keep saying they stay home and those who work in such cells and have to do technical checks. Therefore, Article 256 in which this could be added without any problem now in the same way as it was resolved for the other documents. I think the damage would be less. I would also like to stress that this issue of border passes where we already see 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia has a pass. What kind of a citizen of the Republic of Croatia if you don't have a pass, it's really a shame. I think it's a situation that just shows how completely wrong it's been done. Because at the moment when you can't leave Komiža you can't go to Vis, and the Komiža pump station doesn't exist it just shows the paradox of how unable we are to make too many boundaries for certain areas. This isolated island, which is isolated by itself, we put them in a position to go to Vis, get a pass so that they can fill the fuel from Komiza ić to another municipality. When someone tells me about the border between Ružić and Drniš or a situation where a woman from the suburbs of Sinj who is 100 metres away is a self-server but is located in the Croats, she must go to Sinj to get a pass to go to that supermarket. When someone tells me it's all very expensive logic, I have to say that it's the worst threat of police officers who need to know that there are already more than 100 in self-insulation, that some are unfortunately with confirmed coronary virus, and Mr. Minister says they have protective equipment. Here, go upstairs, the officer at the entrance, at the entrance to this INA building, no gloves, no mask. I won't say the minister is lying, but go see for yourself. As for the territory I'm talking about, I think it's a complete waste of resources, and it's a complete waste of the situation and I say too many areas would have logic, half a million passes is red tape that leads us to endanger those who need to look at it all together. There's a system that can handle it, and I think it's kind of a paradox, which is that the responsibility actually lies with companies or local headquarters or state headquarters leads us to the fact that it's really going to be a shame if you don't have a pass and you can't walk around. I don't know what the objective of this measure is, but if you want to limit movement then it should be in exceptional situations and pass should be served. Today, I'm just asking you what it would look like in Zagreb, why we don't have boundaries around the neighborhoods, why you who don't live in Zagreb, think a little bit, that in Zagreb with this amount of people you have, the one who lives in Pestnica can't come to Jarun, that's a lot more citizens' concentration, etc. So I think you should think about seeing what I was talking about 10 days ago. Today we have laws on which this assembly is the most legislative body that discusses how much personal, passport, etc. will apply, which do not actually use anything, nor can you travel, nor do other countries receive you, but we do not talk about the right things. Because when someone says they won't train or intend to violate human rights, or train strictness, this is exactly strictness training. So is the law that speaks of cell phone control. Ineffective, unnecessary, and that's what we really need in this state that is extraordinary, no matter what is not declared. And should laws that restrict human rights or not be passed, this shows. Why we make these laws, and we don't have any laws to limit movement. So it's just a situation where it actually stimulates and violates self-insulation, solutions, it's strictly strict, so I'm going to call a few statements because I didn't of course start this with what should be common, thanks to everyone. Of course, thanks to all who do their job, I congratulate them on that, and I especially congratulate those who do this by sacrificing themselves without the equipment and without what they need for the job. I get the most hurt when I hear a sick mother has to fight in more health care institutions so her child can have care. It bothers me when the doctors are called five-coloners, when Mikulić, the chief state inspector from this building, introduces a new measure, regardless of what this assembly did not talk about, and this is psychiatric treatment for those who violate self-insulation. The uniform of the minister who listened to the advice, so he took the police tags off himself, just talking about it and left only civil protection is a good thing. I even thought he'd come in uniform here today, but that's not a good message, the minister isn't the one to wear a uniform, he should wear what he needs to protect, not parade at press conferences, not around. Because the conductor of the orchestra doesn't go to the performers, he stands on stage, conducts, and it's all expensive. This way when people start and they get into everything they're told, of course you have a problem. January 9th was supposed to be a meeting, we heard here today that we're the first state to understand what's going on in China. 26.2. Minister Beros said there is no panic that it is just a more difficult form of flu. In 18.3. we were in a situation where the real crisis started, and in 19.3. we changed the Civil Protection Act, and for those measures that are being taken, I have to mention here only under the law. No one is allowed to do this under the law. So when the police break up a mass gathering of two women, middle-aged women outside the Park Hotel, that's not what we want to see. Because much worse things were, so what follows after the party, after the party is of course usually having worse consequences than I party, but we've had before the party, we're up to 18. There was a free entry from the neighbouring state and it does, of course, election in HDZ. So all these parties that were happening were a much more difficult form of breaking something that would be the rules of what people today are complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196837	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196838	You said you'd warn me for the last two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196839	I warned you, you probably didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196840	I didn't hear you, I'm sorry, but I'll follow the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196841	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and two MPs will speak, respected counterpart of Grmoja, after which fellow Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196842	Thank you, Your Honor. All the topics that are proposed here and coming to the agenda are marked by this situation, an epidemic around the coronary virus, in fact it's the only topic that dominates the public, and here we all as advocates have the need here to present the problems that citizens are talking to us about. I've seen most MPs talk about the problem of e-passes and we now have a bizarre situation that they, what, 400,000 have already been issued. I wrote on Twitter three days ago that before the government will issue 4 million e-passes than admit that such a territorial structure is an unsustainable invention. So, we now have one situation where the ministry has to think about rounding up somehow a unit, it can, I saw that there was one proposal on the territory of police stations, maybe going in that direction at this moment, and when this crisis is over, I hope it ends as soon as possible, going in the direction of territorial reconstruction, one more rational, one more rational division of the country, means where we will no longer have 500 municipalities and cities, where the counties, hopefully, will not go into some regionalisation, because we know that it will never pass, never agree to be under Split, will never agree to be under Zadar, never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka and no regionalisation comes into consideration, but to strengthen municipalities and cities and to reduce their numbers. That's the path we need to go in, and I hope this crisis is a lesson for us. It means to everyone in the government that this situation is simply unsustainable. People are coming to us, here's me from my Neretva saying this is something to do, this is ridiculous, we have a country in other municipalities and cities, in Neretva we have big problems. After all, here are the people texting me, so what our government thinks our people in the villages know how to use the system of e-citizens, does our government think that we all in the villages have the Internet this simple we live here, we're all on cell phones, we think it's a common, normal way of living, but it lives differently in the country, that, that people know very well, the people who live there. Here, they're asking me to react in that sense. They also ask me to react in terms of not having every village and I talked about it in the assembly, this bank, and some people have protected accounts, don't use cards, go to the bank to raise money, I can't get to the banks, these are things that you in the ministry should think about and suggest such solutions. I think we're like an opposition, I won't be as strict as my colleague Ostojic, there'll be time to criticise, now it's time to offer a solution. And I ask the President of the Assembly here, from this place, please continue the session HS on Wednesday, the government did not propose the Moratory Act to perform, our citizens who have been executed, who are blocked deserve a peaceful Easter and let the government propose such a law, gave MOST such a law, gave also colleagues from the SDP, you do not have to accept ours, we will gladly vote for the government's law. And finally just one more measure, I think that's very good and it needs to be taken out of this place, it's a coronary supplement. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a supplement for all those who are on the first line of defence against the coronary virus, a minimum of £2,000 directly as long as these special circumstances last, our doctors, our nurses, our maids in other hospitals that work, and their salary is less than this minimum wage that you have proposed for those who do not work at all, for our police, for our border police, for our army, for all who are at this moment at risk of being infected, but who are exposed to terrible efforts. Please, here is the President of the Assembly to present it to the Prime Minister and please continue the session on Wednesday because the government has announced, but has not yet proposed the Moratorium Act to be applied. Our citizens deserve a peaceful Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196843	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196844	Strong and strong measures in these circumstances of the crown crisis should be taken urgently in this home. Models and ways are clear, and here's what colleagues and say, the opposition supported all legislative proposals and when they were also the first set of measures, here and now we are discussing that even these proposals are that as little physical contact as possible of our people with, in police stations due to lengthened certain documents, that they will be accepted, however, we should also talk about exhausting our officers who are due to territorial reconstruction, I note... Replica, I didn't get an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Territorial means cops are tired, our citizens can't do their jobs in units like that. From Sinj to the island or to the island, Dalmatian or Croats are mentioned, where there are no basics, people don't have banks there, they don't have gas stations and they don't have other things. I can't understand how much energy is being exhausted on our officers and through these passes we haven't essentially solved the problem, but we're exhausting Croatian police officers so that this crown supplement is urgently to be given to people, both in healthcare professionals and all those who are doing work, from Croatian soldiers, police officers, all those who are going to work these Easter holidays, exhausted, for 12 hours, that this supplement is an emergency and this is the measure that we're going to encourage these people to do, not only with praises, but also respected secretaries, I think you're going to pass this on to the Minister. At this time of crisis, it is very important to protect domestic production. I asked the minister, I speak for weeks, for days that import lobbys have torn apart domestic production. At this point, people are in problems that our farmers, who have dairy production, have to spill milk. We see, now they're coming in a bunch of vervain strawberries, so where are the people going to have 500 tons of strawberries now? Where's he going with the crucible material than in the markets? And I repeat here, dear secretary, I also told the minister that there is more security for people in open markets in domestic products than in the trade chains of security measures,... Chains where the import goods are, from Italy, pomidore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which will continue to continue and now import in this crisis to sell Italian pomidores, Spanish strawberries until our products can't be exported to those countries. So he's still doing the import lobby his job undercover. I ask that markets be opened immediately, and that's what the farmers are looking for. In addition to the measures prescribed, if there is not enough in the local self-government of municipal directors, volunteers will go. You've seen cheerleading groups are ready to volunteer to maintain space and that physical distance with all measures. So which is why you're jeopardizing your domestic production, instead of saying now, let's do the processing, divide the agricultural land, flood our fields, you're sending a completely opposite message, you're buying imported goods in the trade chains. Markets, who thought of it, I can't, I'm saying it on this side, that's what farmers say, our O.P.G.s, open up urgently, save what's left of the market. Quartov markets, under everything, of course under the measures they should be, and this way you'll destroy this peasant from the village what's left. Instead of encouraging people to weaponize their fields, ornaments and plant and encourage agricultural production, because these policies have led, in this crisis it is visible what you have done in Croatia all governments. That we don't have self-sufficiency. That's from... A hectare of raw agricultural land and at this point we have no choice but to open markets, but that's what farmers call me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who have wasteful material and those who deal with dairy production and those who have fruit, vegetables. Here, I mentioned Vrgorje strawberries, where are the people with 600 tons of strawberries from Vrgorec? Where are they going with them? And Spanish will be offered on, in trade chains that are more secure here than to be made in this place. Of course, there should be precise and, of course, the biggest savings would be the senselessness of the public administration, you see, i.e. Not the public administration, but the senselessness of the organisation of the Republic of Croatia, and now if we don't see that we need to shut down the county, that they're pointless, that not the biggest money for health and education went to them and that money was directed at them. Where health care is needed, believe me, there would be eyes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196845	We are now going to discuss the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Two MPs, first a colleague, Zekanovic, and then a colleague, Glasovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196846	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We all get a lot of messages, so do I. I just got word from a Mr. Tihomir Quiet from the Dalmatian Burn who's a chronic patient and should go to Split for treatment, but there's no pass. Because of the nature of the disease, I can't even get out, so he asks me how did the state remember to send me a letter to cancel my supplementary health insurance because I didn't pay, but I didn't get it in the mail, by mail to the house, means a pass to go to Split for treatment. The second question to Minister Bozinovic, here are the ministers and other members of the Civilian Staff who have the most modern masks they say are not to be worn, and on the other hand, here is a message from the medical staff who says they cannot carry out adequate checks because there is not enough protective medical equipment or masks or jumpsuits. Like what? cancer patients who are one of the most endangered are simply not treated these days because medical workers do not have enough protective equipment. Instead of obtaining additional protective equipment for medical staff and for all those dealing with this crown crisis, we are thinking here, or not us, but the MUP is thinking about how to track citizens in Croatia, about how to track phones, about QR codes, about the location of citizens, and then we actually hear that in a very short time as many as 440 thousand passes can be issued and cannot be electronically voted. So in voting, we have one criterion, and in issuing passes and controlling citizens, we have another criterion. When we talk about this, I have to point out a particular problem, and it is a technical review or an extension of the traffic licence if it can be without a ID card and passport for a month so that the same prolonging can be done with regard to technical examination or with a traffic licence. After all, people today use cars less, so there will be no adverse consequences if this is prolonged. When we talk about tracking this crisis interestingly, we always have reports from the same countries, we have reports from Italy, we have a report from France and Spain, here and now we have a report from the United States, but we don't have reports from India, for example, we don't talk about India, we don't talk about Malaysia, we don't talk about Indonesia, we don't talk about the Philippines, we don't talk about Brazil, we don't talk about Ecuador. So I list all the countries of the third world, those undeveloped countries or countries where a large part of the population lives in conditions that are not worthy of man at all live in straws. Is there a crown crisis there? Have these countries taken action? Is he dying there or maybe he's not dying? Here I would like to hear in the media, and we hear nothing about how this crisis manifests this epidemic in third-world countries. When we talk about bad examples, no one mentions Belgium, no one mentions Holland. And when we talk about good examples, no one mentions, for example. Hungary, which is twice our size, and there are far less sick than we are. So here we have some double criteria, I have a feeling that we have in the media only those worse examples from the environment of Italy, Spain, France, UK, and while those beautiful examples and countries where the epidemic is, I'm going to tell God thanks doesn't spread, I don't know what reason or not so much as. India, Indonesia, Malaysia, they don't remember, they don't remember. Why don't we talk about these countries because these states out of a billion people have only a few thousand people and I'm curious about what measures they're taking, maybe we can apply them? And lastly, I'm going to refer again to what the minister said that we were a week early with measures or delayed with measures would have been a disaster, if we were early, there wouldn't be any infected. Why aren't we early? Maybe there's a reason for the HDZ election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196847	Here you go, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196848	Dear colleagues, President of the Parliament. Here is Croatia 5th in a row by moving to the EU of its citizens, people go out. But the difference between Poland and Romania they integrated their people into the legal economic order, it does not exist in Croatia. Israel has a return law and it's about these documents here. In 1922, there were 2% of Jews in the Palestinian administration under British rule, today there are 6.5 million. What about outside Croatia? What about the new Citizenship Act? We've been waiting here for, what, 30 years for these people to come back. Some want to go back. What about the third generation that almost forgets Croatian? It seems to me that we have become like Australians and Canadians and other Commonwealth countries who, by the age of fifty and sixty, have sought only white emigration. They wouldn't let the Chinese and the people of Africa, the Caribbean, so today the Croats are out of their homeland no matter what they say to me. This can be easily proven by these procedures, bureaucratic procedures. This bureaucracy generates corruption and we have missed the petty bureaucrats to guide our strategy on the return of Croats outside of the year. Let's say, three years for citizenship, travel administrations, etc. 270 days on average for permits. Bulgaria is ahead of us on that point. Is there even some kind of long-term strategy to bring our people back from the outside? Here are the people who started the International Court in Switzerland, who launched an action to curtail a law there to return money to those who were occupiers here until the integration of Eastern Slavonia. If they had put so much effort into returning Croats outside the country where we would be today. Syrian refugees have greater rights in Canada. Some changed ethnicity 12 times, and they got IDs. A Croat outside the country, I said six hours ago, he can neither vote, he can vote formally, there are hundreds of thousands of people registered as voters, it's his right to be taken away. He's been deprived of the right to return to take care of his grandfather, and we're still talking about democracy here. Do we even need the skills of these people? Of course it took capital when the crowd was. There were billions and billions of dollars coming here for weapons, I will mention only one small action called "The Movement for Life" that was before the war, where the Croats from Toronto sent millions of dollars for children without parents and they continued and after, during the war for orphans Croatian here. What about the SOA, the SOA found out that 40 members worked in our service against the Croatian people until '95, did they have IDs? Do they? Do the associates of the former Secret Service who worked against their people have any IDs? Yeah, they sure do. The EU's response to the crisis was mentioned by Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission President Marshall's plan, so we have half a million Croats in Germany alone, and this is our Marshall plan. How much money comes out here? What would happen to the pension system if it wasn't for those people and other systems here? But no, we ignored them, we waited another year for citizenship and we played Democrats and this cosmopolitan here. We remember the U.N. Department of Assistance and Reconstruction, '47. The year came in that "South" 416 million dollars, which today is worth 14 times more and it saved Yugoslavia from hunger. These saved us in the war of hunger, our citizens out of country, and they can't, they can't go back. What now? Here, there are some questions we don't have an answer for, I'm the answer to those IDs. The world is ruled by birth dysphoria, these certificates are changed, birth certificates. Some now plead as men and women, it's no longer a joke but a reality. These birth certificates are being changed, they want to come here in Croatia, even though we're already giving people a credit card, we want to put these cards on people who worked against.../incomprehensible/... for in the former system their code names? Some of them are sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196849	It is now the turn of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196850	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. This package of four laws should be welcomed anyway. Any move to protect our citizens from any unnecessary exposure to COVID 19 should be welcomed. But I think we should ask ourselves today as we pass this law, why, why we haven't so far been better informed and electronic teamed up and why it's even necessary to pass these laws in the 21st century, why it's not possible that all these necessary documents can't be completely removed, i.e. Run the process of extracting these documents via the Internet, via the portal e-Citizens, and why, I think, have we brought ourselves into this situation that at this time simply with a few mouse clicks we can't simply order these documents to get us home? In fact, here, the debate crystallized that actually passports and IDs would, I mean, ID cards would actually be for internal use. Why is it that such passports, unless they send notes with these countries, at least the EU, I think we will find it very difficult to cross the borders. But from what I understand, these standards are about travel documents, that this easier, return of Croats from abroad to Croatia. What I'd like to say again is that I think we should work on making that contact between citizens and, let's say, bureaucracy, that is. means the M.O.P. departments that issue such documents and, in future, reduce it because we know how much it is actually, how difficult it is when a man has to take out new documents, if he has to take out, I don't know, his ID or passport or any of those documents, he can count on it for at least one day that he'll have to spend just on standing in order and so I think this is a good opportunity for us to simply send that kind of, that way of doing these jobs to the art of history. When this set of laws was passed, I'm only sorry that it might not have thought about bringing immediate changes to the residence law in this situation. In fact, there is an institute of residence in the Housing Act, which means a shorter establishment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in places means that they do not have a permanent residence, but they have a place to stay, and it is up to the Institute to actually depend on the use of some sort of material rights that are linked to the units of local self-government. Some, once, mean that, the Institute's place of residence must be restored, so the application of the residence must be renewed every year, i.e. every year. After a year has passed. I think that once certain the number of our citizens will run out of residence, they will no longer be able to extend it, and the question is, what problems will all be faced with. In addition to these material rights that are potentially created at the level of local self-government, there may be problems if a stricter, more epidemiological measure is introduced, and let's say that they are not allowed to leave their home, no one should leave their home, then the question of where these people will go, where they will be, because then they will remain only the home address, and that residence address may no longer be returned for objective reasons. So, I think it's a very serious problem, and here's what I'm proposing to the ministry to look at it and look at the fact that it's a legal matter, and I don't think it's just a decision of the ministry to derrogate or prolong it, and I think it's going to have to be the same law here. I'd like to say, since I'm already here, they've touched here and everyone's been talking about the problem means e-pass. I also agree that this may be such a strict restriction on the individual units of local self-government in these circumstances where we have so many units of local self-government that some of them are so small that they don't have all the necessary, complete infrastructure for life where people simply have to go from one municipality to another, if anything else pours gasoline. I think you should think about finding a new, different territorial coverage that doesn't necessarily have to, or, I don't know, be in line with some previous or existing territorial structure, you can simply, I don't know, pull the border on, say, police administrations or, why not, the whole county. As far as I'm concerned, and maybe I'm wrong to understand that the problem was intrastate migration in terms of large-town migration towards smaller environments when it started talking about isolation and that it was burdening local self-government and that it was creating a certain fear of what would happen if some disease of such individuals temporarily came to their homes for rest, but this situation where people are simply distracted by their everyday life activities, I don't think it's what was meant to achieve with such measures. And I would also like to touch what many colleagues today spoke about the markets. I don't see why the market is more of an epidemiological threat than any major store, any chain of commerce, I don't know as much as any of you have recently been in one of the major sales chains in the store, and outside you're waiting for some time in order, this line that's being created outside the store, sometimes people stick to the prescribed space, sometimes not, once you get inside, so it's kind of an impression that people don't fully respect that 2m gap, possibly when you're waiting on the register, you're driving the slalom between other people and they're all trying to get away with each other, but with more or less success, and there's still a closed space. If the markets were to get better, we're talking about open-air sales here, so there's still a slightly smaller possibility of transmission and in some slightly better-controlled circumstances I think it might work, and it's not a waste and the fact that the closure of the market is going to cause us a lot of suffering from the OPGs and our domestic farmers. There, the HNS Club will certainly support these four laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196851	We are now going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the two representatives will also speak, the first colleague is Žagar, after him, a colleague of Orepic, and you will have a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196852	Thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We mostly work in the Republic of Croatia, our systems operate the truth is many times we don't know how actually. Our health system, which has endured the greatest burden and has largely proved to be quite successful in the struggle with a vicious epidemic in the sense that we do not have the exponential growth of this disease, so this system has been created long ago, with all its flaws it has managed to maintain this level of health care in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? We have a central office for digital society. Many of us and MPs today even though we had some reports at plenary sessions in HS, we don't really know what this office is doing and what it has done besides digitising existing documents. And everything that we haven't done so far is now going to be charged, so I'm not surprised by this package of laws that actually allows for the extension of the validity of certain documents, if nothing else for citizens to pay the fine because their document is expired. Like what? if the person has expired not to pay 500,00 kn, to allow them to use it until this danger passes because they do not have to physically go to the police station to extend that document because we are still a country of counters and seals even though we intend to stop being. For illustration, the town of Bokaana in the municipality of Voćin is only a few kilometers away from the central town of Voćina. Do you know how many letters he travels from Voćin to Bokana? Eight days, you heard right, eight days. HP, what the state orders services from HP, a third of these services are sent to send letters between individual state bodies, so, then these letters physically go. So we have to admit that in this area we haven't done anything, we can't say anything, something's done, but we haven't done enough anyway. And that's why it's not surprising, and this one's talking about the pass, March 23rd, the minister, excuse me, secretary of state, has made a decision to ban the movement outside of the place of residence and residence, keep an eye out. It was later interpreted as not referring to the municipality's border, but why not write the municipalities and not the places. In the Republic of Croatia we have 128 cities, 428 municipalities and 6756 towns, settlements. So it was very clear in the headquarters's decision that the pass refers to leaving the place of residence, 6756. Well, let's not be surprised now, as it's said, as a chickenworm, that we have so many passes. Civil headquarters was supposed to sit with, always, always saying government doesn't do that. We have a 555+1 unit of local self-government, so let's sit down with these people, organize the Republic of Croatia. It could've been done, Art. 54. The Law on Local Self-Government states that more municipalities can establish a common body, so more municipalities and cities could establish a joint headquarters, so that the headquarters would issue passes for leaving the area. Territorial reconstruction is certainly a subject to think about, but it's something else. This could have been solved in a very, very appropriate and to say, a reasonable way and today we wouldn't have these problems, which we have because we're really being called by citizens. I've been reprimanded several times as an advocate and said well because you represent our citizens, so what do we do, we don't have a butcher's shop, we don't have, and the post office is now closed in these times, they don't have people, schools stop, so people no longer have anything in their place where, where they live, they have to leave that place, and accuse them of being, that they're undisciplined because they're looking for a pass, it's not good at all. So this set of laws will certainly be supported because it must be made possible for citizens to have their documents valid in this way so that they do not pay the fine and that they can continue to function normally, but in the future we should definitely think about, that these things, and we have the possibility of simply being in such a bureaucratized country as we are, that this is no longer happening, that we really reduce that red tape to a smaller measure, which we can do. And one more thing, Secretary of State, very important. In these large numbers of headquarters that people do today, they do serious work, hard work. There are many members of Civil Protection whether they are from DVD or they are members of the Civil Protection themselves, who are very valuable now doing the job, and many of them themselves are unemployed. Think about giving them some compensation, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196853	We continue with the debate that is divided, the next one is Orepic. Here's a colleague of mine. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196854	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I want to take the opportunity and say it's okay when we meet our citizens in this way to allow them to solve problems in a simpler way that means this situation. But we're in this situation because we've been passing this law that we're now supplementing in a hasty procedure when it shouldn't have gone in a hurry procedure. If we hadn't gone through an emergency procedure, we'd have thought about that law, we'd assume all the variations, and we'd have assumed a solution to what to do in extraordinary situations like the one we're dealing with. I insist that we must be legalists, we must respect the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, the fact is that we are in a state of emergency and we have to declare it, it involves this House of the High in decision-making processes in this crisis situation. It's a key thing to say that we justify why we're even sitting in this hall or any other hall where we're sitting. The key thing is to bring reality into line with the normative. Now here's a banana example. Minister of Health based on the Law on the Protection of Publicity, Art. The 47th is the only one who can make a decision on quarantine to express myself, i.e. restrictions on movement, etc. What's happening to us, but that law means compensation. If we knew that, we wouldn't suggest some sort of crown fee or I don't know what other fees, but the minister is obliged or has the possibility to lay down the amount of compensation already provided under the law under that law. Unbelievable, and we bring a restriction on movement under the Civil Protection Act. The 22nd point, which in any sentence at all, does not speak in a sentence about a situation that involves infectious diseases, protection from infectious disease, or this situation where we are. So that's our absolute discrepancy with the laws that exist that I can't even read, obviously as if we don't know. Here, I'm going to ask a few simple questions, which law are prescribed and what measures to disobey a decision to ban movement without a pass, what law does that make? From everything suggested to conclude that somehow on the back of this crisis it wants to profit in another direction. Can we conclude and guess now? I know the heresy is now attacking the Civil Protection Command because if we can't, we should applaud. We will not applaud where we should not applaud, there have been much worse situations, much worse situations where the law was respected, where the state was respected. If the movement is limited, it shall be based on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The 47th is the minister of health who is obliged to deliver and compensation according to that, the amount of compensation, of course, in agreement with the finance minister in line with the possibilities. A whole series of these issues stemming from this illegal act, this unconstitutional act concludes that the HDZ has set out in pre-campion, pre-electional pre-camping, bringing such populist measures that suit a large number of inhabitants, who can read good intentions, etc. It's the only conclusion. So there's no stopping to conclude something rational except for something like that because we have the basis for existing laws on measures that we insist on looking for, we're passing some weird laws, laws on the law. Please, this is a crisis situation let's commit ourselves to making an emergency situation, Parliament is a place of obligation and duty to participate in decision-making processes when these circumstances are in the state and it must be respected and maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196855	Thank you, too. I'd like a little intervention before the final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The last debate is on behalf of the club of MPs is a debate by fellow Sanader in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Secretary of State, all your colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also taking this opportunity primarily to thank all those who are working on this crisis today, all healthcare professionals, all our officers, all our firefighters, as well as all the members of the Staff who report us daily, and are working on these problems permanently. Here is a set of 4 laws, 4 interventions in a legislative framework that needs to be dealt with well this issue and ID cards and driver's licenses and passports and armed papers means all of those documents that many of us have, many of us, the driver's passport and some 100,000 Croatian hunters' licenses, so these are certainly important documents to keep in mind that so many people and here if we have seen the record that some 500,000 such documents are issued annually then we know how much of the need to intervene and that this legislative framework has intervened through these 4 laws for these 4 important documents to protect the primary meaning, these are also all the speakers of my predecessors said to protect our fellow citizens and to reduce this social contact which is most crucial in this issue of transmission of the virus that can be most dangerous in this social contact. The HDZ Club here, we heard from one of the previous speakers gave another one, asked for another additional clarification through the amendment where we wanted, so that no different interpretations would occur, and these four laws, to be put here not to end the epidemic, but to declare the end of the epidemic, not to cease the epidemic, but to cease the end of the epidemic, so that it was a clear formulation, although alone in the law for all four laws, it was clearly defined that these decisions and this legislative intervention were only valid during the epidemic, or 30 days behind. So, I think this was commendable and necessary and good to react in such a way that it did not come into any doubt about this situation. Here it is also, said a few things that might well be looked at, the question perhaps even some other activities or some other documents or other obligations that our citizens have, and when they need to go to places where more people are gathering. Surely it's worth the discussion to see this matter of technical examination, but I think that, personally, I think it's very questionable to question our means of transport and our vehicles and to leave the possibility that a vehicle is technically incorrect because it threatens, again, a large number of people, although today it's a time of less traffic, and then maybe you can think about it and see that kind of variant, which would mean if it were made. I don't agree with the attitudes expressed here, I don't know, that cops don't have protective equipment because, here, all the checkpoints and everything where I've had contact with the cops I've seen that they're well equipped, that they have full equipment, if some cop's currently taking off gloves or a mask somewhere, then surely that's no reason to declare now that the police don't have protective equipment because it's incorrect information and certainly, I think that you here from the ministry, too, clearly, you have to confirm it, and we see it every day that it's not true. Furthermore, the issue of the start when this crisis began, here it was immediately identified, of course, with both the legal and the political game, and it was said among other things, that it was the HDZ radio, that it had its own internal elections, and therefore allowed, first I have to say here, but also for the sake of the Croatian public, that no citizen from the neighbouring country participated in our internal elections because our party has a territorial organisation, so it must be registered in the territory of Croatia. But here, in order not to be identified and not to make it false here, in the sense that the time of the start of the measures was timed, when 29.1., or 28.1. at the energy conference "Energy 2020." Prime Minister Plenkovic made a statement, then many mocked her, and said, "The health ministry is an important responsibility that we have at this time as chairman and as a country that is together with others, it must be prepared to defend itself against the widespread epidemic of coronary virus. This requires the full focus of the ministry on these topics." So that was 28.1. From 28.1. here, this statement makes it clear that we were already in intensive activity related to this preparation and action of the battle against the coronaryvirus. So they're inaccurate and malicious infor.../incomprehensible/... here are statements that say it's tied to a vote within the HDZ. Here was a good proposal from a previous colleague, that the organization was a pass. Surely, we can talk about whether there are problems, which are problems, solving problems if they have the difficulties of people on the ground, but surely one of the good measures is here proposed by Mr. Sagar, which is legally possible, that more units of local self-government, means no more settlements, but more units of local self-government under the Civil Protection Act can organise a joint civil protection headquarters. So maybe even through this debate we should invite our people on the ground to less, especially smaller municipalities, see ways and opportunities to create joint headquarters or even to bond with larger communities. This particular can be for our islands, which can then make civil protection headquarters for the entire island and thus resolve the issue of passes, but certainly citizens have shown this through polls and public statements, that these passes were made primarily to protect the public. It is not for the sake of any strictness training, nor for any abuse, but primarily for the protection of human health, and therefore for the safety of people. So it's incorrect to switch it to anything else, and it's also not right to insult people in the country and say that people in the country don't have Internet, that people in the villages don't have cell phones. We know that every fellow citizen who has a cell phone, has the internet and has the possibility of correspondence, and that the older households are helped by younger people, the Red Cross is well organized, has made himself available to the Croatian people and leaves the possibility of helping anyone, anyone who has problems, should report to their headquarters civil protection, and I am sure that human beings can solve any problem, and malevolence in these activities can be found whenever someone wants to. If the problem is to be solved, I think we must all be unique in solving the problem, that we must invest our overall strength and that is the best way to overcome this situation. On behalf of the HDZ Club, clearly, we will support all these four laws along with this amendment, which will then be evaluated by the legislator, but I think it would be good, just to find ourselves in any situation to begin to interpret when the epidemic is over and when the epidemic is stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196857	Thank you. I'd like a little intervention before the individual debate begins. The first is his colleague Pernar, a colleague of Pernar, who does not have the right to debate in accordance with Article 233. Next fellow Bulj, colleagues in accordance with Article 233 loses their right to debate. Next is colleague Angelko Striker, he's here, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196858	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues who told us two months ago that the world would be affected by an epidemic of literally biblical proportions that stopped the world, and in some countries and destroyed the hospital systems, I believe that no one would believe it. Because of the coronary epidemic, our lives have changed completely in one day, conferences, cultural sports events, travel, gatherings and gatherings are cancelled. We are daily in front of small screens, we follow the report and the instructions of the crisis headquarters, calls for action "to stay home" and publication of the media. By the way, we follow the situation in a world that's a little scary, so we read, the Italian army drives the bodies of the dead from the crown virus, the crematorium works uninterrupted New York to step up to disaster, the mayor urgently asks for 3,000 respirators and so on. When we follow such news normally to ask ourselves where is Croatia in all of this? So Croatia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the outbreak of the coronary virus and at the rate of the infected and at the rate of mortality. This means that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the crisis headquarters make decisions in good time, and all services and institutions of the police, military, firefighters, doctors, nurses, civil protection, or all involved, are doing their job well under the new circumstances. In order to continue to successfully fight the outbreak of the coronary virus, it is important that as many citizens as possible remain at home. For these very reasons, i.e. that the fewer citizens are coming to the police station counters, the government has, in an emergency parliamentary procedure, given the additions to the 4th laws proposing the extension of the duration of the documents and permits issued, 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The I.D. Act provides that the person who owns it must submit a request for a new one, for example. for the following reasons, if it has expired, if personal data on its personal name have changed, if it has changed its residence in the Republic of Croatia, if the photo on the identity card no longer corresponds to the person’s appearance, if the identity card is damaged, if it is partially or completely broken or for any other reason does not serve its purpose, it shall be possible to use it and would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. In order to enable our citizens currently located outside the Republic of Croatia to return i.e. the passports issued, and they expire during the duration of the epidemic, were proposed by the law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, they would be considered valid 30 days from the end of the epidemic. The additions of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens shall allow citizens to make certain actions required within the prescribed time limits such as the submission of applications for the issue of an armed list for weapons supplied, the delivery of assurances of health skills or documents to have the technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons and the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and other weapons, and whose deadline of undertaking falls during this epidemic, to do so when conditions are obtained, or 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The additions to the Road Safety Act also enable the use of issued driving licences, which expires for a period of longer than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. It is evident from the above that all measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including these amendments to those laws, aim to protect human lives and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that the proposals to extend the validity of the identity card, passport, driver's license and the armed list are welcome and another measure in the fight against the coronary epidemic of the virus. I'll support those laws of supplementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196859	Thank you, too, please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, fellow Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196860	You said and started your speech that someone told us two months ago, so I ask if you heard that statement mentioned by Mr. Ante Sanader of 26.1. that the prime minister then warned Croatia and the European public about the dangers of the coronary virus, and I would remind you that 19.3 was the first measure or amendment of the Civil Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196861	Let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196862	I could have said two or three months ago, but that goes to 28. January.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196863	Thank you. We no longer have replicas, please intervene and continue the debate of colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196864	Dear colleagues and colleagues here today have already been told a lot about this package of measures that we are discussing today, and how we were actually discussing on Friday a package of measures that will help the economy, this is today one package of interventions in 4 laws to even better endure this state of emergency and crisis for the sake of coronary disease, and in a way that allows our fellow citizens not to suffer certain consequences that may have or may not come into breach due to the non-expropriation of certain IDs or travel documents or a valid armed list or driver's license. I think this proposal in all 4 interventions in all four laws is justified and good for the reasons that we know ourselves and when certain regular conditions are always on the counters of our police administrations and orders for exactly the extension and identity cards and travel documents, as well as the driving licenses that most of our citizens use and have. And in order to really for these reasons of the epidemic that we have avoided such crowds on the counters, I think this kind of intervention in these laws is really justified. We ourselves know that the extension of such cards is due to two arrivals in the police administration, once for the submission of requests, and the second time for the takeover of these documents when they are finished, and not to mention that it is also necessary to have some photographs to make these documents, and given now these specific conditions in which we live when it is not possible to realize to go and maybe we don't have some spare photos at home, I think these situations are really justified, not only to protect our fellow citizens who are in this need but also employees of police administrations working on counters. Here I would really say to this occasion that we all have to think together in this situation of how to trust each other, to believe in the justification of everything we're doing in this difficult situation and really try to be responsible together to contribute in any way to stopping this disease as soon as possible and to getting all together back into the normal lifestyle that we had until a few months ago. I think that's our goal, and I really welcome every measure that will continue to be taken in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196865	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Hrvoje Zekanovic. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. He loses his right to debate. The next debate is from counterpart Ostojic, so the word is spoken. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196866	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will first of all talk about the issue of residence since an invasion of islands and Dalmatia has been allowed, etc. of 7.1. Since we bring here laws on the extension of certain things, the system of residence or residence does not function. I may be wrong, but everyone has a chance to use those regular legal options, so I think it's important to inform citizens about it. Secondly, we have not reached a solution, of course, as to how the police are replacing sanitary inspectors, we have not solved the situation as far as it is concerned, I guess today that the Staff has powers, but its powers are limited, and this Parliament may be bombed by similar laws as these today, and the real crucial question is whether we welcome them. I'll indicate we're one maybe important part, and that's the issue of crisis profiting. It was promised that it would be settled, I think that these are the things that are happening at the moment because some, as always, take advantage of the situation to profit in these crises, and I think it would be very important to come before this House. We need unity, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, the situation I warned about the pass I think is perfectly clear and that it is not understanding the situation on the ground itself. I've given specific examples. As for the issues of concealment, I ask you not to understand this because I see that the heresy has turned out to say anything, but it is necessary to say when certain things you consider to be a better solution, so the better solution is to make too many zones in which it works and works. I cited this as an example of Zagreb, and I think it is very important. I repeat, the unity yes, but not in the creation of chaos because what we now have between the municipalities to create obstacles on the mountainous roads is something that is really unnecessary and extremely wasteful for those who are, in one way or another, overworked with their work, specifically speaking about police officers. I think it's also important not to be allowed because the procedure is democracy. Democracy doesn't have without procedure and what I want to send as an important message, which is at this point being ignored by the Criminal Procedure Act. I didn't talk for no reason about police officers being burdened by having to do video shoots and stuff, that's when the law was, of course, rejected. And today we have a situation that everything that's done in these conscious conversations won't be used in a variant when it comes to the DORH for reasons you didn't want to accept the situation then, which is that the police can't do it at all times and in every way. And it will fall because such things no one has the right of course to suspend the Code of Criminal Procedure or ignore it. Let's also not embellish reality. In the center of the town of Kvatric, a student lost one thing, stealing. The presence of the police can't just be in the center, don't let what we know happens at this point. In Chucher, people guard their village at night, even with motor saws if necessary, this country cannot afford it. And I think it's very important that we don't embellish things but to do them in a way, which is true, the unity that, all of us, help, do everything to protect each other, but don't forget that there's a field. I just want to send a message, this isn't a competition in that when someone said something, I listed the exact dates. But I must say that the issue of reacting HS to the defence of democracy in the situation that we are the ones who have to protect the most procedure of that phalling must not be and the headquarters has no authority to replace the parliament and it must not happen in any case. If you need to be here every day, make those decisions, if you haven't already accepted that this extraordinary situation is also something that could be applied and a different article of the Constitution, I want to say for my part, we also said, support, yes, but not in creating chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196867	Thank you. Stay here, have one replica, here's your colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196868	A colleague Ostojić, not to mention important things, is one of the important things and that citizens have generally listened to the recommendation "stay home" and they need a big thank you. And when they need to walk on a promenade or a mountain path, it's limited to them, and even the police act. I think it's too much and we don't need it, and on the other hand we're coming to the Republic of Croatia our fellow citizens, but we see even strangers coming to us catamarans yesterday in Zadar and they're going to be sent to self-insulation after taking the wipe. Do you think this should have been more severed and quarantined, thus preventing the spread of the infection in the Republic of Croatia because citizens are solidarity with each other, being safe, guarding each other, and coming at us with danger from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196869	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196870	1.4. We had 3467 people who were violating self-insulation, and the numbers were shrinking. But I can't answer that. However, a much bigger problem is that it cannot even answer your headquarters. To my question from a month ago whether to wear a mask or not, to this day we still don't know the answer. So when someone tells me that people are protected from wearing masks and gloves then let me know if it's necessary for us all to have or not, and that's what people are looking for and what they need, and for everything else they will answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196871	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, a small, little intervention after counterpart Ostojić, colleague Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196872	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and fellow MPs. The law's intensities are good, but I don't know if I'm going to vote for him. I mean, I'm in a big dilemma. Much more difficult restrictions and things applied to a large number of Croatian citizens have been taken by the Civil Protection Staff, and then for a small administrative measure that actually helps citizens, the decision of the assembly is sought. And why couldn't this technical measure be brought by the Civil Protection Staff? We both know that those measures that are now in force, which have been adopted by the Civil Protection Staff, which constitute restrictions on the rights of the Constitution, restrictions on citizens of the rights of the Constitution, should also not have brought about a staff but a council, either in the worst case, the Government or the Ministers of Health, by virtue of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Why am I saying that? So, for the fourth time from this booth, I will call for a decision to ban leaving the place of residence, to be corrected in a way that areas that are not allowed to leave to be in line with the former territorial system, not with the current one, not because the former system is territorially better, perhaps, but that is not important at the moment, but because these areas are defined as areas where every citizen in that area can exercise some of his own rights. For example, on the island of Brac we have 3 gas stations, and 8 municipalities, we have 3 malls located in one unit of local self-government. The island is usually almost isolated because it's very hard to get on a ferry and there's not one infected, the number of people in self-insulation, I think, is now one-digit. In fact, I no longer see the need for any restrictions that we have in the rest of the Republic of Croatia to be present more on the islands. So you can't come to us, no one's infected, here's the people in self-insulation, and then you can think that the restrictions that are justified are still in other parts of the Republic, they're being abolished. For example, there is a procession behind the cross on the island of Hvar on a big Thursday. In order for it to even be held in this narrow form, which is with 5 to 10 people in the procession, they need to win a pass because they pass through the municipality of Jelsa and the town of Stari Grad in two, in two parishes located there. That's also absurd. Therefore, my appeal is again that these areas where they are not allowed to leave without a pass to, to be corrected in a way that they are the territories of former municipalities. What Mr. Sanader just said in, in his debate on behalf of the club, if I get it right, he supports that intensity, if I didn't get it right, we'll correct it in a replica or in an individual debate, but that's to be corrected. Because still if we were to bring all the counties together, then no, when, if we put that county that can't be left, the first one would still be twice as small as the City of Zagreb, which, with 800,000 inhabitants, represents one area that shouldn't be abandoned. Therefore, the decision as is now written and applied is an disproportionate restriction on the right of citizens to move, especially from smaller backgrounds. Thus, it is one discrimination based on a place of residence that is not proportionate to the danger that is removed by that decision. So the village of 100 inhabitants and the city of 800 000 inhabitants is far greater than the spread of the infection in the city of 800 000 people, so there are no restrictions, and there are restrictions between two villages with 100 and 500 inhabitants because there is an administrative border between them of a municipality, and there is an area which the state authorities recognise as unique because most of the state institutions are set up so that there is one facility by former municipalities. The other thing is, the second thing is the current non-application of the Law on residence and residence of citizens about not being able to apply or extend residence. So some citizens did not find themselves guilty of a situation that could be considered semi-legal. So before the decision takes effect on the ban on leaving the place of residence or permanent residence has gone somewhere, we would like to legalise that status, and I cannot apply for a residence where they are now. And that way, and that would be useful, the state would at least have the data of how many people there are right now, and then it could possibly adapt to some of the health and other services that could be done in that area. I have some ideas so we can work this out, but I don't have time to tell them anymore, so I'm going to add the written discussion to the secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196873	Thank you. Please stay here, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196874	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Bauk, here's a chance to extend the debate further. In fact, when you talk about the boundaries of areas that citizens shouldn't leave without a pass, they could be former municipalities, I couldn't agree more. But it would be enough to send the Staff or the Government now to the units of local self-government a memo in which they will return back to the reasonable limits. The local administration units will do so within two hours, send which is too much of an area within which it cannot move without the citizens' pass. And with you, I agree, there are municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that are small municipalities, even more municipalities if we say the entire former municipality of Podravska Slatina we combine into one whole there are no more than 20 and some thousand inhabitants. So these are things that can be resolved to benefit the citizens, and ultimately security would be respected because there would be no danger to the threat of the population from the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196875	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196876	Thank you. So I noticed that as soon as that decision was made to make these more logical areas the intensity of the decision would remain the same, only there would be no more 500,000 e-passes but there would be maybe 50,000 e-passes. I will ask the Minister of Administration how many passes apply to areas of former municipalities which should then no longer issue passes for that number of citizens. I have to say it myself, I don't think this is why we should change the territorial structure. So the territorial structure usually needs to function under normal circumstances, it's not a good state of emergency to use to change regular things. So it's not freedom of movement that should be limited in a normal situation. So that's one instinct. The local headquarters might do it, but why take responsibility for themselves because everything's fine until it's first infected, and then when it's first infected, they'll ask the local headquarters why you did it. So it is better to make a decision centralised and that local headquarters apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196877	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras. A colleague of Maras doesn't have an article. 233. He loses his right to debate. We continue with an individual debate, the last reported debate within the time foreseen to report the debate is a debate from counterpart Ante Sanader. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196878	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I agree with what Mr. Sagar said, and Mr. Bauk, it is clear that these are situations where we need to find the best forms of how the system will work. No one's desire nor the sense of making some kind of strict measure that will be the purpose of who? You're on your own. So the meaning and desire and purpose of all the measures being taken is to protect the public, human health comes first. It's the only meaning, the only interest and the only reason why all these measures are being taken. I think it's clear to all of us that every benevolent accepts it because it's the fate of all of us, the health of all of us. And just being unreasonable wouldn't accept everything that's reasonable. And the headquarters and all those who eventually make such decisions and the local headquarters will always accept every good idea, no one was born smart. So today we're making changes to the law, four laws, why don't we bring something new tomorrow if we see that something doesn't work in the field and in life. So there are solutions, there are possibilities of this kind of joint headquarters. It could be the headquarters of a big city with a smaller city, just taking into account what Bauk said, that these measures don't bring new infections then it'll be a problem, and that's not a wish to anyone. And in that sense I was saying we need to be unique, these aren't things where we need to compete who's smarter than we have to look together for the best solutions like in any crisis, any disaster. I've had a lot of experience with fires and big fires and catastrophic situations and we've never had a fight over solving problems. Every normal accepts all good suggestions, all good remarks, and so does headquarters. And today's debate should be a message to the headquarters for good remarks. We're unfortunately talking a little bit about these laws, these four legal solutions are they well written, we don't have that practical thing to say, but we have what we're saying out of life. What we get every day, many of you come across people from the field, your fellow citizens come to you, acquaintances come forward and say something doesn't work, something needs to be done. Here, so I believe and I'm sure, and I know people who work at headquarters that everyone will be well-intentioned to accept all the good suggestions and ideas. And in that sense, let our debate go today. Here I'd like to use this last minute of debate to say a few words about firefighters because here I am daily with my firefighters on the ground, we don't have a special headquarters we're part of a normal total headquarters, but here's correct for the sake of the citizen to know that the activities that the firefighters are doing with this regular fire extinguishing here yesterday we had, for example. 61 fires of open space throughout Croatia. There wasn't a single disaster, but yesterday they were working canaders, just for the record. And here's like an appeal to fellow citizens, maybe some people use this situation a little bit and go into the field, which they can go won't get infected, but to make sure they don't start and do something that can cause a fire and then lead the firefighters into a commitment to go to the intervention, and then that makes it possible for firemen to get infected. But well, thank God there are no such contagions, firemen have a system, well organized, they have protection, and so far there have been no such cases. But here's just as a note 1,500 firefighters are engaged daily on these measures against the coronary virus. So that's what they're all about and helping the police on checkpoints and transports, headquarters and everything they need, especially in smaller areas, you know that in small places there are firemen for everyone, to help with all the interventions, that these local headquarters, headquarters in small towns, they're practically the first hand, so here, here. That's a thousand and a half firefighters. In Zagreb alone, there were 2773 interventions, following the earthquake. Secondly, today 9 counties outside the city of Zagreb are helping the city of Zagreb. So 9 ladders, high scales from 9 counties are now in Zagreb and helping, and before that was 6 in the last shift. So they work actively, the fire department acts as one system throughout Croatia, and it is now seen in this situation, here, I welcome all my firefighters, thank them and support for their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196879	Please stay, we have two replicas here. First up, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196880	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sanader, it is an ideal opportunity to show unity in a replica like this. So, as far as decision-making is concerned... Will you just give me back some time? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, as far as decision-making is concerned, I think it's a good thing that there is a body that can make a decision that would come into effect immediately in a situation like this. I'm not sure it should be the Civil Protection Staff, I think it's better to be the Government and then, in one reasonable time, to come to the confirmation of democratically elected bodies in whose authority it is, such as the Parliament. My message to the citizens is, respect the decisions of the Staff, the Government, the laws, but continue to criticize them after you respect them and spend them because they can be better. It's democracy. So this, too, we've been proposing for some time to bring these areas into line with life situations, and so let it be done, after 2 weeks, that this measure has been adopted and that it's obviously in the number of infected, what's being published, and it's given some results. This is my humble, modest contribution to unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196881	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196882	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. Well, that's exactly what I said in my debate, and this debate today is our chance to make our remarks about what we see, what life brings us, what our voters, our citizens, our people, our locals, the locals, who we have contact with, our fellow citizens, and no one is opposed to it. Yes, of course. And then we suggest it to the Chief of Staff. Here, from today's debate, all this good we've heard that, we have the opportunity to improve the system, we suggest it to the Staff, if the Headquarters wouldn't accept it, then we could talk about the headquarters usurping power, but look. The headquarters must function, in crisis situations you can't wait for some, it's like a war, you can't wait for some decisions for a long time, decisions have to be made, and a report is submitted to the government and the Parliament here. Clearly, there is no alternative, democracy has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196883	Last line, here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196884	Thank you, dear colleague Sanader. Let's just point it out one more time. So, when we criticise these measures, that doesn't apply to it, nor do we think the intensity was the Staff that, as you say, usurped power. Everyone in this serious situation, the message of the Staff, with this restriction of movement was to the citizens, that the situation is extremely serious and that any unnecessary movement of the population should be prevented. But what citizens from the field tell us is that there are also victims of those who need to, who need to move. So, we need to keep that unnecessary movement to a minimum, but we can't disable the necessary movement, so go to a doctor, to a pharmacy, to a butcher shop or somewhere where people need supplies. Although it can be said that people can go, to them, many of them create significant problems, and because of this, these Staffs, in fact these measures should be adapted to the lives of the population, and I especially join you in thanking all firefighters in many small municipalities, DVDs are the ones who have put up with the great burden of the Staff itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196886	I don't think there are any municipalities that don't have a home of health or a hospital, a health care facility. But if there are such, then there should be, people from that field warn it and it has to be solved, and then when he comes to his primary health care doctor, if he guides him further into hospital treatment, so that manual is a pass that a man can pass there. No one's unreasonable, there's no, there's no robots, there's live people standing there. And I've witnessed it, I've been with my firemen there at the checkpoints, and people have understanding, there's no such problem. But if there are any such problems, then it is necessary to clearly warn and send such, such a remark, here are our representatives, our Staff, if the Staff will not bring it out here publicly, but I doubt there are such ones in the Staffs, and this state and the county, and especially the city and municipal, there are reasonable people who solve the problem and whose task it is. So I believe that if there are such things, let me know where, which we'll sort out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196887	Thank you. I'm asking for an intervention. Here you go. You may, Comrade Maras, be my guest. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I beg you, since this isn't the first time, these are spé.../incomprehensible/... so the Rules of Procedure has been injured in terms of holding a session, the very way we're working now is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but there was a deal between clubs at the Bureau of Parliament. What I would ask you, since we can't be present in the hall, to try to take care of that the MPs who checked in here, but that moment weren't inside and it's not happening to me right now, it's the first time that I'm not here, and here I've been out a little bit, so I came back, to allow people to argue if they're in the hall, and right now they're not in, if they're in The building, and they're not in the hall right now. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Here, I'll ask, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196889	I'll ask professional services to see who's here, who's not. I can't pay you back because I took your word. [[Intruder Maras: Yes, I ask you to return the word to me.]] Thank you. We're moving on. [[And why did you take my word for it?]] All right, please, colleague Maras, let's get on with the final... [[I've been outside the hall.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196890	I mean, don't just do the form of the Croatian Parliament. So we're sitting here, we should be able to argue. If it's not the conditions for us to work, don't work, but don't work just to form a session of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196891	We don't work for form. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196892	Thank you. She is the same business base as her colleagues, Maras, and you yourself and Mr. Sanader, the vice president of the Parliament are witnessing that I am at the session of the Parliament's presidency, which was held the first day we started here to discuss, asked that, not to apply a strict provision on the loss of words when there is no one in the hall because physically cannot be in the hall. Then I remained misunderstood, and only in this debate, Mr. Zekanovic, Mr. Bulj, Mr. Maras and Mr. Pernar, whom I didn't see here, and the three of them I saw lost the right to speak because of these restrictions could not be in the hall. I think it's a disproportionate sanction and that in the future, if we stay here, it should be corrected just like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196893	Here's a thank you in the future we'll correct that. Here's my colleague Ostojić, final. I'm going to ask professional services to inform agents who are outside who have no other way of informing. Thank you. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196894	And here's exactly what we're going to do to show that constructiveness again is to adapt to these opportunities. We haven't talked about the replica for no reason because it wasn't even a deal, and I'm going to repeat it again, the deal can't be an excuse to derrogate and move the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So please make sure you change that. As for the areas of too many areas and everything else, 10 days ago there was a debate here and I was speaking on behalf of the club and I was just saying that the question of a pass is not a good solution that they need too many borders, and I even suggested what here today I hope they will hear the headquarters, which is the territory of the former municipalities would be a logical solution and would not happen these absurds, which is that people in 6 local self-government units have to ask permission to go to a gas station to get back to a place where they normally have a place of residence. Also in the closing word, everything is intended to help constructively and I hope that they will listen to these very messages, then there was a sentence, and that is to use the experience of Lovran Municipality that took a small company from Bakar that then solved the issue of electronic passes, before that we had a rush on the counters. So it's good that they heard this part get rid of electronically, but I think it's important that the variant of the pass be resolved in a better way because this way we're going to have the extremely lost resources that we really need and we need to save them at this point, first of all I'm talking about people, cops who work and who control that state. As for covering up the real situation, don't view it as something incorrect. I think it's important that the real situation is for us, and especially since we haven't been through one crisis together, regardless of political considerations, we do our best when we know what the situation is. You don't need to embellish the picture, you don't need to lead it to a situation to say it's better than what's true next, and that's so we can react correctly, I think we have to accept ourselves this way. Criticism doesn't necessarily mean criticism, criticism can be well-intentioned, I hope we understand that, and therefore it was my sentence, unity, yes, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, when we are faced with the situation that many of the things that in our lives are doing more today cannot exist, when the situation is that regular health care cannot work, when our citizens and citizens are threatened, we expect to adopt in this Assembly the right measures that can really help. And I want to point out, the measures are not only repressive, the protection of citizens is among other things and the protection of their human rights. It's something that's important, the moment when, I agree with my colleague Sanader who said democracy has no alternative, we must not endanger it in any way, and I think it's very important to send a message here and here as a message, and be sure that you will have neither our support but should protect democracy above all, so that we can go back to normal life after this extraordinary state that we have at this moment. Therefore, any observations to be sent are the goal, the aim is to help and make a better solution, and there is no need to worry. And as for the citizens, we must protect them all together primarily here from this House, and by measures that don't go to heart, I will repeat human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196895	Thank you. Comrade Sanader final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196896	Clearly, I absolutely agree with the fact that democracy has no alternative, the protection of human rights has no alternative only we must first have people to protect their rights. If we don't have people, then we won't have to protect whose rights, so this is health protection, health protection is in first place right now. If we don't protect people's health, if we don't protect these people, then we won't be able to have their rights. So democracy has no alternative and human rights protection has no alternative. We can discuss some measures, if we estimate that some measures are not good then this place where we can discuss it, but we have to understand and we understand because our citizens show themselves daily by their behavior that they understand the danger, that they understand the situation we are in, that they realize that all the measures that are taken are primarily for the sake of people's health because it has no alternative. Only a healthy nation can have a future. And all that we see to potentially endanger democracy, but also human rights, then we need to talk about it publicly. But we can't take every measure if the meaning and all the most relevant experts in the world who spoke about the coronary virus about the epidemic said it was the most problematic social contact. Both the Staff and the Government and this Parliament have the responsibility to do their utmost to avoid this social contact, that it is as small as possible, to come down to the most needed measure. Again, when it comes to health, we can't say that it may have been justified if someone received a certificate for a specialist or a doctor in a hospital and then we won't let him in because of the other municipality, it was a cartoon. But we cannot, under the protection of human rights, endanger the health of our neighbours, our fellow citizens, that is where we must find the difference. I know and the greatest danger would be to compromise human rights in any way. We lived, we older bar here there are plenty of older ones living in a non-democratic system, and we know what it's like and don't God ever let it happen again. No party, no party, no government to question the threat of democracy and human rights, but we must bear in mind that we are currently in a serious epidemic situation, that serious measures must be taken, to see what is happening in our neighborhood. Some who have easily accepted what is happening have released the epidemic, today we see military trucks driving corpses. And the meaning and desire and the goal of all measures and the work of the Government and the work of the Staff and the work of this Parliament to preserve human lives. Here in this sense we have to be unique and we have to look for the best solutions and then there's no division in that business because that's the only thing that can get us to do good, that's the only reason why we're here and why people chose us. I appeal to everyone, and your behavior confirms that you understand that, and that we are all going to win this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196897	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196898	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I thank you all for your constructive discussion and your suggestions. But let me say a few words that would explain certain misunderstandings or questions that are not necessarily related to these four laws alone, but it concerns issues that she normally solves in nature. Here is the introduction of how many documents were issued last year, I will only briefly repeat, it was issued in police administrations and stations of 565,000 ID cards, 385,000 driver's licenses and 125,000 passports. So almost into the hair of a million issued documents in our police departments and stations. It is said here that for most of these documents it is necessary to come twice despite the possibilities given in recent years that for some of these documents such as the passport, such as the driver's license to submit the request by electronic means, therefore it is not to come then twice. It is also possible to change the residence by electronic means and to result in some kind of agreement, such as the consent of the landlord to apply for residence or residence, such as the consent of one parent to report a child to another parent or to give him a ID card or passport, but still, despite government efforts and resolutional ministries, the MUP, the Ministry of Administration, the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society, such requests are still subject to a smaller number of citizens by electronic means. So, despite this, in 99 police stations and 20 police administrations, so in 119 places, a million of these documents have been issued, which means in nature almost 2 million arrivals in the past year, so it's approximately all other years, and therefore these laws suggest that these documents, of which three basic documents with images that benefit us in different legal situations, will still be valid. It's not the intention that was said here, I think Mr. Sagar said, that it is here that prevents citizens from paying the fine. No, the main intention is trust in legal traffic, so the continuation of legal traffic that enables normal communication of citizens, economies that even at this time of difficult situations certain sectors, segments of society operate, to function and enable us to cope with this crisis period more easily. Of course these documents if only the Republic of Croatia recognises them will not be able to fulfill their purpose. They have already been prepared and as soon as Parliament, hopefully, votes these four amendments to the law, will go through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, diplomatic notes will be sent through our diplomatic consular representations to all countries to accept these extended documents and therefore the fact that our citizens cannot, as well as citizens of almost all other countries, replace this document in some regular, until now ordinary procedure. So also these situations of a necessary journey during this epidemic, our drivers doing a significant job supplying goods from other countries and from our producers driving them to other countries, so that they can function normally during this period. The issue of residence and residence has also been touched, and we have also considered changes to this law, you know that by decision of the Civil Protection Staff is not a possible change, it is not possible to travel except in justified cases between different places and therefore we will consider the possibility of an electronic change of residence when justified or when it also expires as these documents have expired. The residence annually, let's say the colloquial second residence reports about 140 persons and some of them, of course, in this period has expired or will expire and stay. We will consider this and, if necessary, correct that regulation. We think that these measures will bring about the possibility of legal traffic, the fluctuations of citizens to the most necessary extent that is now possible and permitted, and thus I believe that this issue and the e-prompt will be easier and more adequately solved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196899	Thank you. Please stay because we have three replicas. He is the first colleague of Ostojić, after him a colleague of Zhagar and then a colleague of Bauk. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196900	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I didn't understand whether a citizen could change his residence or not, or if it was exclusively downloaded for e-Citizens? I'm asking you this because you mentioned the decision of the Chief of Staff, there can't be a single headquarters that's the example that I'm telling you about to abolish existing legal provisions, so that's not supposed to happen. That's an example. Here I am constructively telling you that this cannot be allowed in Croatia, so you cannot lift someone's right to change their residence by decision of the Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196901	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196902	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. At this point, it is not possible to change the residence or residence because, of course, the decisions of the Staff on the restriction of movement could be disabling. However, we will work to enable, in justified cases, these changes that would not go in order to disabling the Staff's decisions on the restriction of movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196903	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196904	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. You'll have support for these measures. The general public's view is that the Staff has done a good job for the simple reason why key issues have been left to the profession instead of politicians, key issues to the profession, and that is the general public's view. And today I mentioned the Central State Office for Digital Society and there I said that most of us don't even know what he's doing, but it's not their fault. And in that case, if we leave it to the profession, there's a lot of professional people sitting in that office to let them do their job, then they probably wouldn't even have these problems today because they'd probably live up to a lot of e-documents. And finally to conclude, regardless of how the Staff has come to these powers, which is being warned by counterpart Ostojic, he is doing a good job. However, what we must think at no time can any headquarters abolish the democratic standards of society, i.e. Put the laws below your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196906	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The government's intention to enable and encourage Croatian citizens and other foreigners who are legally staying to use electronic services and who are opening up more and more every day, therefore it is increasingly possible to request a particular document by electronic means or to give some consent as I said earlier. Staff decisions here cannot comment, but I can say that, of course, the aim of all state authorities is to facilitate these decisions of headquarters, to operate and to make it easier for society to live by these decisions which, of course, are not always easy for a number of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196907	And the last replica of your exposure to colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196908	Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you correct your statement a little bit because you just said that the headquarters has put the residence law out of force. It's usually called a coup in democratic countries, so correct it a little bit, find a better formulation. But the intensity to change the residence is not correct because in this case it would only be about changes in residence that would actually aim to bring the situation in line with what would then be written in the residence. So if someone who now has a residence in Varazdin, and now located in Virovitica changed their residence on Virovitica, there would be nothing intensifier about banning movement, however, it would be better because he from Virovitica could no longer go anywhere. So the intensity that the residence does not violate the headquarters measure does not make sense, so it does not seem logical. Someone would just put a place where he was and then he wouldn't be able to leave it by the same valid decisions of headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196909	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196910	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Any citizen may otherwise change his residence within 15 days to report it to the police office or station. We can't know whether or not someone in the last 15 days before the adoption of these measures changed residence, but you are calling for us to recognise the illegal situation from before, because we know that there are always a number of people who either from a coma or from some expectations or interest don't report their residence and residence as they should under the law. So for them, we can't change the rules now so that people like that can amnesty out of responsibility. But the longer these measures last, of course they will seek appropriate answers through laws and other regulations, the more we cannot cement. I don't remember saying that the headquarters put out the law, I don't think I said it, but if I used a similar expression that referred you to it, I'm sorry I didn't intend to say it, and I certainly didn't say put it out of force. I'm a lawyer and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196911	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, the Law on IDs, the Law on Road Safety and the Law on the acquisition and possession of arms to citizens at 13:33 p.m., and we will vote when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196912	The next statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on travel documents by Croatian citizens is the following. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Katic in front of the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment because it no-technically regulates the article and advances legal norms to make it clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196914	Okay. Does the proposaler's representative want to be shown about the amendment submitted? No, I don't. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196915	Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The promoter is the Government, the amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives Club, and we held the statement at the session and the amendment was accepted. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on travel documents by Croatian citizens. Who's against it? There isn't. Who's restrained? One is restrained. And who's in? I'm sorry, I didn't see two. So I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on the Completion of the Law on travel documents by Croatian citizens. 128 is for and 2 is restrained. We are now starting with the first united debate, these are 4 laws: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Safety of Croatian Citizens, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Personal IDs, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Traffic Safety and - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of Arms of Citizens All are an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. From 899 to 902. The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Prior to the proposing representative, it will be the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, respected Davor Bozinovic, a colleague of Bernardic, who asked for a break. You can go there anyway, however you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196917	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament today is on the agenda of the bill on the extension of travel documents and I am therefore looking for a break today, simply because we need to understand that at this moment there are people to be provided with, to extend security in this period. And that is why we are asking that our proposal of the Moratorium Act be discussed tomorrow morning, together with this debate on amendments, and that tomorrow at 12 o'clock, this law be put to the vote in the Croatian Parliament. The contribution to this thesis is that this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196918	A colleague of Bernardić, a colleague of Benardić, just a little please. So, you can ask for a break on the agenda points. You're not asking this, you're asking that one other item of the agenda be discussed before it's scheduled. So now you're not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196919	Okay, I said if you extend the IDs, then the travel documents need to extend the security to the citizens that they don't have to fear paying off the loan. In particular, because the law was supported, it was supported by part of the ruling coalition's representatives on the Finance Committee. Therefore, at this point, the Finance Committee has adopted the Moratorium Bill's proposal for loans to citizens and entrepreneurs for a year, I suggest that you put it on the agenda tomorrow and vote on the moratorium tomorrow at 12 o'clock in order to provide security for people in Croatia. Citizens to continue their normal lives and entrepreneurs to continue their normal business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196920	Well, you used your request for a break in a way that I find unfair, but that's your decision. A colleague of Glasnović, you're reporting for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196921	Thank you. I'm asking for a break to discuss these two laws, a consultation from this club's party regarding IDs, IDs. It is closely related to Croats outside the country and there is also Mr. MuP Minister we are still waiting for a new law on Croatians on citizenship, this has not been settled, we are long waiting, people are worrying about the problem, the issue of these documents takes months, years. The question is that the process will be simplified or the sabotage that started long ago will continue, we know how it went. A Croat would have to, for example. from Toronto in fact Vancouver in Toronto, 6 hours summer, then you would have to carry out the Croatian language test, now according to some new announcements will not be in the new law, then you would come to Petrinjska, then you would have to go to Chernomerac, etc. This bureaucracy she, it is intended sabotage, of course, if we talk about democracy, human rights, but it is taken from people outside, these people are citizens of this Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Some have come here, they've got double taxation, they've got left money, they've got houses, they can't come back fast enough to solve the problem of seized property, property-legal relations, and the question of when the law is bound, the new law on citizenship wants to speed it up so that these people get back, to break those blockades. We've got people out there, for example. which we need, for example. The Croatian-American society of professionals can contribute to this country, but if we talk about human rights as people outside see it. The right to vote has been taken away, they don't have it, they've taken away the right to private property and, of course, the blow we see from left-wing media on freedom of faith, they hit these churches. And that would be a short one, yes. We don't play Democrats here anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196922	Okay, the break will be approved. Here you go, buddy Bull. Also a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196923	Thank you very much. Here, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. The topic is extension, one of these is identity cards because the deadlines on the measures we have are difficult to achieve, and I think that's good. But here, too, when we talk about IDs, documents, we should talk about people living in certain areas, and they can't place their products on markets. Well, since the Minister and Head of the National Civil Protection Centre are here, I am not clear that foreign products are sold in trade chains from Italy, Spain, now their strawberries, Vrgorje strawberries will not be possible, fruit material will be able to be sold in markets, and why would we not be organised in markets and I don't understand why the markets are closed, and the trade chains work where foreign import products are? Imports destroyed us, people's safety, at this point, mostly farmers are the key to the whole story. We set Croatia up and allow agricultural products to be sold on open markets with all security measures. People are in huge trouble. Not milkmen, cheesers, people who sell vegetables, fruits, they can sell their products, and they're at risk of safety. At this point there is no higher priority than self-sufficiency because the wrong policies we have led so far have shown that Croatia is an unprocessed state, an unprocessed agricultural land. Instead of inviting you to buy your home in our markets, with all the security measures, volunteers will provide better than in the trade chains of the security measure. So once again, I support this proposal made by the Government But finally open the markets [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] to enable the sale of domestic products. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196924	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue to work at 11 o'clock exactly. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER MEETING Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I announced before the break, we are discussing four laws under the jurisdiction of the MUP. I'd like to remind you, given the agreement we have reached, the promoter will speak for 20 minutes, clubs for 10 minutes and individual debates will be five minutes. I would now ask that, on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation of the law that respected Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196926	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will not speak for 20 minutes, but I assume this will be a matter, so it is four laws, so on the additions of the Law on the ID card, on road safety, on the acquisition and possession of arms and the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The additions are proposed for the reason that citizens, in the light of the circumstances of the declared epidemic, come to the counters of police administrations and stations, and that, through the reduction of close contacts of protection and citizens, as well as officials who conduct administrative procedures. For example, in 2019 and police administrations and stations, 565,524 ID cards, 284,559 driving licences and such issuing procedures were issued, unless they were electronically indicating that citizens would come twice to the registers of administrative work, when applying and for the purpose of taking over the documents made. The additions to the ID law are therefore proposed to allow citizens in the situation resulting from the Covid-19 disease epidemic to use an earlier issued identity card which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic and would allow them to take over issued identity cards within the same time limit. That I don't repeat the argument because it's the same for every law. The same would apply, therefore, to the Road Safety Act, which would have been considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic, thus allowing citizens and for certain actions to be carried out within a specified period of time, such as the check-out of a vehicle which will not be used temporarily or permanently, the acquisition of a manufactured licence, the conduct of a surveillance check and the second, may also take place for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. As regards the addition of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons, it would allow owners to use previously issued arms sheets which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the date of termination of the epidemic as well as the actions required by the prescribed law, such as the submission of a request for the issue of an armed list for weapons purchased, the delivery of assurances of medical ability or documents to have technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons, the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and the like. Finally, by supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, it is proposed to allow citizens during the duration of the epidemic to use a passport which expired for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic primarily to return to Croatia's Croatian citizens whose passport expires during the duration of the epidemic and is abroad. Here, I think it's pretty clear and I wouldn't, of course, unless there were questions that went further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196927	We have 8 replicas because 3 MPs have signed up from the SDP Club, which can be maximum 2, so please just tell each other who won't replicate because you contacted your colleague Vidović, Ostojić and Maras. You will not, well, but you will not, colleague Ostojić. Then let's take it in a row. First mate, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196928	Ministers are clear about these measures in order to reduce our citizens' physical contact in making certain documents that have expired. But I've pointed you out to one I can't tell, let's say now we have these measures that people are from their places where they can't access without this pass to other places. It's illogical, for example. that places like my Sinj, the former Sinj municipality has 6 local self-governments and, of course, it is illogical that some smaller municipalities do not have the possibility of banks, or ATMs, the elderly cannot come to that area, so whether these measures can be taken which would be healthy to expand to former agglomerations i.e. The former kind of way that these municipalities and cities are connected, it's a simple center, for example. The son is all in Sinj, so that they would facilitate communication, and the measure would abide. That's very important. And another question that I asked you briefly, what about markets and domestic products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196929	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196930	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, first of all, when we talk about passes, you know everything we do these days is about implementing epidemiological measures that need to help us to prevent the infection in Croatia from reaching exponential growth and, according to everything we see, at least in the last few days, we keep the situation under control, so the growth in Croatia is linear, it is not exponential to make it clearer. The most famous scientists in this area have warned very early, and we read very early about it and thought about it and made decisions about it, which means that if you're a week late with some decision, that the number of infected and then, associated with it, and the number that... What? Yeah, I'm sorry. [[President: Time is only running out, you finish, you have a minute.]] Okay. So we created one system that we now have, this morning there were about 520 thousand e-passes issued, so that's, we're about approaching that optimal number which then allows us all of this, as you know, from the idea to the realization. It took a few days. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196931	Comrade, just a minute, Minister, I beg you, let's hold on for a minute. Now I let go and in the next answers, I still get Look at it [[Okay, here I really didn't take care of it.]] You got it. [[I wanted to explain, but good.]] Next. [[Agreement: Markets are on the way today to talk to everything... What?]] Next. No, wait, wait a minute. Some now encourage to answer, others earn that time is up. No one threw, here, ask a colleague, Zekanovic. ... Yes, yes, e.... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't all have two minutes, we'll all have one minute, so please, Minister, then answer this question in the other. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196932	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in your public appearances, you often thank people who are on the front lines of the fight against the virus. Among them are cheerleader groups even though you never mention them but talk about young people, therefore. Just to clarify to the Croatian public, so right now in Zagreb fans' groups are engaged in 3 areas, they deliver food and medicine to older people and self-insulation people. They're on duty in the soup kitchens, doing order, social distance, and moving things to people who've suffered an earthquake. So in the context of what they are currently doing, can you explain to the Croatian public whether you will continue to insist on the Fans Act, which is being punished from 15 to 30 thousand kunas for 0.5 promills and people who violate the self-insulation of 8 thousand kunas. I mean, that's deeply unfair, so answer the Croatian public that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196934	I, the esteemed Mr. Representative, would take advantage of this occasion and thank everyone, including members of the fan groups who at this time volunteer and show solidarity with those members of society who are either part of the most vulnerable groups or simply cannot meet all those needs, primarily related to the procurement that, as we ourselves know, is limited. So, once again, I thank you all, and for the peacetime topics when the epidemic passes. As far as we're concerned, did we get into the red?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196935	No, he can't. Now let's go to Question 3, Replica, colleague Vidovic, here you go. Don't confuse my colleague Bulj with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196936	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I'm only interested in a brief and clear question. Was the government meeting really held on January 9th, as counterpart Bacic claimed the other day in connection with the coronary virus. And secondly, how is it possible, if the meeting was held that these measures had not been effective 15 or 20 days ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196937	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The Croatian government, prime minister, its associates were likely among the first to detect that something was happening in China and should be monitored. However, even then, and also today, and then especially there were still too many unknowns to talk about whether this virus would come to Europe, as it would spread, there was not enough information. However, the fact is that we were also talked about and that this epidemic did not surprise us in relation to some other countries, including us neighbouring countries, because that's how it tells us that we have linear growth, and some much larger and more developed countries with which we have watched what they're doing have lost control of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196938	Thank you. We're going to a colleague named Bilek now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196939	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that for every commendation and these four laws that are on our agenda today that we really respect all that the Civil Protection Staff and its recommendations, all that he proposes, on this side here we thank you and everyone in the Staff for the dedicated work and for the measures that have been introduced. I think we should thank everyone, including the meaning of honey. sisters, by doctors, doctors, drivers and all others, but of course, we should not forget all our other citizens, all the people who work in the building, but primarily our farmers who should worry about the self-sufficiency of our products, so on the other hand, here, I complement that question from my colleague, and the related market, you announced yesterday that you could go in a certain direction to sell products on the market under certain restrictions, so please here's the answer, when, when you can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196940	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196941	So, like when closed parts of the market opened, we included local civil protection headquarters, just as we are talking, meetings with video conferences with all headquarters and associations of cities and associations of municipalities are taking place, and it is that they know about the conditions, especially the epidemiological conditions, so a limited area, a number of people who can at one time be, a distance between sales places and the moment we get feedback like when it was in the first case with closed parts of the markets when we get confirmed information from local headquarters that all decision-making measures are being taken will be released and will be published. I expect it can probably be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196942	We're going to a fellow Panenic now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196943	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, as Minister of the Interior, I am primarily asking you, it is also related to this law that you are primarily trying to protect the population from unnecessary contacts and we welcome that. But I'm going to ask whether they're protecting themselves enough, and the cops who are in touch, they stop us every day, and they're implementing these measures that are now limiting movement, and they're in contact with a number of people. We have seen that there have also been references to the amount of equipment, enough equipment, so I ask you directly whether all police officers and officials working with citizens have sufficient means of protection, whether they have seen enough quality that the first line of defense they come to and when they come from abroad, it is the police who are receiving them that is very important that the police are protected at the highest possible level. Is that how it is in Croatia right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196944	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196945	I thank you first and foremost for showing concern for police officers and officials who are among the most vulnerable activities in this crisis. They all have protective equipment and no police officer in particular who is in contact with citizens who do not have protective equipment. What is also the fact that protective equipment is at this point the most powerful issue in the world, but we have, through and through contacts and purchases primarily large amounts of this type of protective equipment because it is not the same of course for medical staff in intensive hospitals and others, assured that Croatian police officers including other emergency services have protective equipment, and this change of e-passage which is actually checked for mobile phone contact, or close to reading the QR code is actually a contribution to reducing unnecessary physical contact or touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196946	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196947	Dear Ministers, I will first conclude that Croatia had one great fortune that it was not a European country that first experienced a coronary infection with the virus. If we were in Italy, we'd probably have an Italian script. You said a few weeks ago that they were weeks ago, that one week was very important to infect flame or suppression, so I was wondering why you didn't leave a week earlier to this extent when you saw what was going on in Italy? Is the reason you might have had the HDZ election so it didn't start with the measures because you said yourself that one week was important, so we could have been much better, if you said so well. And the second question is, did you give up on that crazy intent to track your cell phone means to Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196948	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196949	As far as these findings are concerned, we know more about this epidemic every day than we knew before. I will remind you that in 19.3. without debate, the Assembly has voted to amend the Civil Protection Act, which has given the National and Civil Protection Staff the authority to take measures on the basis of the instructions of the profession, which should then be ensured at lower levels, given that the Civil Protection Organisation and under the Constitution are in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-governments. As for the other, it's not a question from the M.O.P.'s portfolio what's important, it's that we Of course, we are thinking about all the possibilities to reduce the spread of the infection, what is the solution to this issue, and what it will look like I can't tell you at this point because it's not an internal affairs portfolio, and I think how things are developing now convinces us that in fact these methods that have already been applied and that from some other times can produce results. [[Thank you, finish your sentence.]] Of course everything will depend about how the epidemic situation will develop. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196950	Here you go, fellow Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196951	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as you know, Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake a little less than 2 weeks ago, which has further made the situation worse in the City of Zagreb related to this unfortunately crisis that we have. You said yourself that we have changed the Civil Protection Act, I can tell you that in the City of Zagreb things don't work, that people are waiting very much for the most basic things and what I would like to ask you here is to pay attention to security in the City of Zagreb, especially because a lot of people have come out of their properties and apartments and ask you to strengthen the security of the city center so that police surveillance can be greater over these properties, to ensure the properties of our citizens and on the other hand to ensure all the dangerous places from the passage because there is still a lot of construction material that can fall from these buildings. What I think, that unfortunately late in the City of Zagreb is all that insurance or reparation and insurance of these facilities, so please to secure it as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] On the other hand, I thank firemen who have been working tirelessly for 2 weeks from all over Croatia and help our citizens to bring about the purpose of certain facilities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196952	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196953	Here, I can only say what I publicly said yesterday about data on crime in the Republic of Croatia, it is in decline, probably because of all these measures of restrictions on movement and now we don't have time to analyze. As for the safety of the facilities in Zagreb, police, along with other services, immediately went out on the ground and thank God for the subsequent incidents of this kind, were not, except for the unfortunate case of the firefighter who died and, of course, the first case of the girl who died during the earthquake, so all available police forces provide not only the centre of Zagreb, but the reinforced centre of Zagreb and I really have no information at this point about having any major movement of the robbery, but I understood your message. And be assured that the police and that part of the work will be done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196954	Comrade Vlaović, you are the last to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196955	Thank you. Dear Minister, I welcome this decision to extend the deadline for extending documents to citizens not to put pressure on police administrations, but our proposal is to extend it to 60 days because I think 30 days is too short. And secondly related to the holders or holders of the licenses to carry and hold arms and hunters, as of April 1st is the new hunting season, so here's the question in which hunters can go to the hunting grounds, feed the game, worry about no poaching, prevent the spread of infectious diseases, and I think it would be good and send this message to our hunters to monitor and protect their health, but of course they also have to worry about their hunting ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196956	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196957	Thank you, very briefly, Mr. MP, this decision has been extended 30 days since the end of the epidemic was declared, so not from today or from the moment of adoption of the law, but when the Minister of Health declared the end of the epidemic since then this count is 30 days. I'd like it to be, as soon as possible, but at this point no one knows when that day is, when he'll declare the end of the epidemic. It will depend, of course, on the development of the situation. As far as hunting is concerned, we have had some enquiries, however, I must say, the epidemiological profession at this point is that hunting is not desirable because it poses an epidemiological risk, especially since hunting in Croatia, and not only in Croatia is not only hunting but it includes a series of activities before and after hunting where it would be difficult to maintain a favourable epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196958	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. No more replicas so you can go to your place. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196959	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, now, of course, in our debates, we will start from the content itself, so perhaps here is the Minister of what he hears, and what is not sure to be passed on to him, we will be the issue of the scope of the changes that have been made. Here we looked at, of course, the possibility of a delay, we'll welcome, I believe we'll all say it's reasonable, but in the extent that we've been looking for, there were possibilities of solidarity with the whole, the whole situation where we're in, where it's said, it's going to cut everything that's possible. So I'm going to ask you a question, did the proposals of these laws cut everything that could? We also have the price of issuing documents that have been in place since 2014, '15. years, so here, correct me if I'm wrong, that's when they're determined. Now, is there room to do something about this? Whether the debate at the time was for identity cards when they were introduced with an electronic chip, so 79 and a half kuna was the subject of debate, I didn't see what it was to calculate, which is the price of making the document itself, and finally whether there is now a space where something could be done and that, at least for a time in this area, we say here, we release the citizens of one part of the obligation at the moment when it's the hardest for them. I'm going to ask each other another question about IDs, and that's an opportunity to deliver something, as well as passports. So it stands out this way that the fee of 30 kuna is for the delivery of the passport to the address of the residence or residence in the event of a request by a citizen. Does it really cost 30 kuna, given the quantity it's certain that the MUP can organize a much more favourable delivery. If the online sales chain organizes for significantly less amounts and I believe that there might be space here because here we had some time ago an amendment to the laws where the funds for, collected funds for making cards for agricultural producers which they prove to be qualified to handle pesticides that charge 30 kuna suddenly become free funds. The government has proposed an amendment allowing these funds to be spent on other purposes. If a farmer pays that card 30 kuna for its production and then remains an surplus of funds then I ask you how much it costs to make a card, it's the real cost of costing. Is someone, is someone actually going to have a little earring, and then ask a similar question for this delivery, at which price, here I will say an example of Croatian post office can deliver a card. If we're saying everything now, so here's the government brought it to work the Internet portal for the sale of products, so let's go, digitize ourselves as a society whether 30 kuna is appropriate or can be significantly lower. We think it can be significantly lower at the club. I also noticed a detail relating to the question of passports, which is that their validity is being extended. The only thing I haven't noticed in this proposal is how it's aligned with other countries, because the passport is a document that travels to a foreign country. What has been the practice so far was that when you come to the border and find that your document expired, they practically treated you as an attempt to enter the country illegally. Is it possible in any other country now with a passport that pointed out the date, which we will give this extension a new legitimacy, to enter any other country. Most countries, as well as the Republic of Croatia, and this also stands on the Ministry's pages, stipulates that the passport should be worth at least 3 months or some other period.../incomprehensible/... from the moment that it would end up in that country. For example. BiH wrote a foreigner who intends to exercise the right to stay in BiH temporarily must enter with a passport whose importance is at least 3 months longer than the period on which it intends to request the approval of a temporary stay. So, by extending the passport, do we achieve any goal and that's the key question. I understand when there is a humanitarian part of the return of our citizens to the Republic of Croatia, but there is also consular representations can react quickly, so if we have the opportunity to speed up the process which is particularly charged with the speedy issue of documents, of course for Croatian citizens it should provide it at a regular price in this time, because it would certainly be inappropriate if we want to return one of our citizens back to the Republic where he will meet both the measures of isolation and actually help all those who have found themselves in this situation that now issue documents is a priority and should not create perhaps conditions as they have been. In the matter of the Minister during his presentation, I have also also warned about the issue of masks, primarily those which are called protective masks not to be cottony because in the extent in which they as police officers work with citizens must have the highest quality equipment, and for such protective masks it is prescribed that the duration is practically within one day and that should be changed and it would really be large amounts so that the police do not happen to be in any form the virus transporter and because they did not have adequate equipment. We see that Austria has imposed an obligation as of April 1st that citizens, when entering the trade, even trade chains must offer them a free mask themselves, so these days it is introduced, so I would also say it is not just legal protection that needs to be carried out, but also protection in a way that protects their officers and officers precisely so that those who might be threatened to be further protected. Once again on this, this, this, the proposal of these laws, the club of the Independent List, the young will give support, but here we will ask the Ministry to consider, in further actions and precisely some of these arguments that we have cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196960	Thank you. We are going to another club of representatives, it is the club of representatives of GLAS and respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so 4 travel documents, ID and road safety laws on roads, other words of driver's license and armed papers, all situations in which documents are required and all 4 laws relate to the extension of the document during the duration of the epidemic plus 30 days after the end of the epidemic. One fusa here I have seen is now as we sit here an amendment has come, a proposal for an amendment of the HDZ Club that requires that a formulation of the declaration of the end of the epidemic, so not only the end of the epidemic, but officially, I think it's a good thing, that it should be introduced into all these laws. Therefore, it is necessary to formalise this situation not when it seems to have stopped or, rather, that it should indeed be a formulation of the official declaration of the end of the epidemic and to tie all these dates and all extensions to it. It is clear everywhere, all four laws clearly state the name of the epidemic which is therefore Covid-19, which is also important to know that all of this, all of this extension, should, therefore, be managed in all the restrictions that are introduced in principle, and will then be abolished, but be introduced specifically to this particular epidemic, not to any other monster, not to any other elemental accident, so that we know that this is strictly related to the emergency situation caused by this virus, that we are not coming into a situation that any of these things stick together and remains after this particular epidemic. The problem that counterpart Panenic has also pointed out is that these laws extend the duration of the importance of passports and ID cards, but only with them can you get out of the country, but cannot enter any country. I think it is particularly important for people living in border areas with neighbouring countries of BiH, Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro, as well as Slovenia, so people who have a need for any reason and thus organised life to have to cross the border. Now, one way to solve this is to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries or to send on the Croatian side an official note that our passports and ID cards are valid regardless of the same date, valid until the official declaration of the end of the epidemic. Because otherwise, it does not really benefit much from this extension except that when an epidemic passes, one can extend those documents without any difficulty. But at this point I think that there would be, therefore, two possible solutions, one is either to enable at least such situations in some way to extend these documents, I mean, first of all, to passports and ID cards, or to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries and EU countries, or to be notified by official note that our passports and identity cards with which to travel can be worth, therefore, that they are valid until the end of the epidemic. Here, that's our suggestion that this measure would have the effect that seems to be intensities in these laws and club GLAS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196962	Let's go to the third debate, SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please. You mean when you get to the end? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196963	Well, Mr. President, I thought a miracle was going to happen after several years, except for what he has introduced around the law and remains in this assembly, but apparently that this bad habit, which is not to defend those laws that he should and that the arguments continue. First of all, I'd like to say that in these laws, which clearly serve to throw dust in the eyes. Here we have heard from the people who have dealt with this and fellow Panenic said this document does absolutely nothing if it is not good. What's it worth to you to get out of the country if you can't get back into it. It can be partially updated through.../incomprehensible/... through systems, through applications and so forth, but it's not a good solution. I think it should actually point out how many of these laws serve only to pet our eyes, as we do service to our people and citizens, and they're actually completely pointless. As for the day of the end of the epidemic, I don't think it should be complicated, it began the moment he declared the Minister of Health and stopped the day he issued the same document. As for the suspensions that have been made here, okay, the validity of the driver's license, etc., but I think that much more importantly in accordance with the reasoning given, which is that the aim is to keep people away from gathering, to reduce social contacts and protect citizens, it is necessary to do the same thing that the Slovenians have done, and this is a question of suspending the obligation to carry out technical checks and prolonging the validity of traffic permits. It's a situation that we have at this point and I don't know what's more dangerous than having an unsightly vehicle that's probably technically right, but it's going to be technically right or gathering in the technical inspection stations of vehicles that threaten and those who come there for those checks, and also those who, of course, have to get out of the house even though they keep saying they stay home and those who work in such cells and have to do technical checks. Therefore, Article 256 in which this could be added without any problem now in the same way as it was resolved for the other documents. I think the damage would be less. I would also like to stress that this issue of border passes where we already see 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia has a pass. What kind of a citizen of the Republic of Croatia if you don't have a pass, it's really a shame. I think it's a situation that just shows how completely wrong it's been done. Because at the moment when you can't leave Komiža you can't go to Vis, and the Komiža pump station doesn't exist it just shows the paradox of how unable we are to make too many boundaries for certain areas. This isolated island, which is isolated by itself, we put them in a position to go to Vis, get a pass so that they can fill the fuel from Komiza ić to another municipality. When someone tells me about the border between Ružić and Drniš or a situation where a woman from the suburbs of Sinj who is 100 metres away is a self-server but is located in the Croats, she must go to Sinj to get a pass to go to that supermarket. When someone tells me it's all very expensive logic, I have to say that it's the worst threat of police officers who need to know that there are already more than 100 in self-insulation, that some are unfortunately with confirmed coronary virus, and Mr. Minister says they have protective equipment. Here, go upstairs, the officer at the entrance, at the entrance to this INA building, no gloves, no mask. I won't say the minister is lying, but go see for yourself. As for the territory I'm talking about, I think it's a complete waste of resources, and it's a complete waste of the situation and I say too many areas would have logic, half a million passes is red tape that leads us to endanger those who need to look at it all together. There's a system that can handle it, and I think it's kind of a paradox, which is that the responsibility actually lies with companies or local headquarters or state headquarters leads us to the fact that it's really going to be a shame if you don't have a pass and you can't walk around. I don't know what the objective of this measure is, but if you want to limit movement then it should be in exceptional situations and pass should be served. Today, I'm just asking you what it would look like in Zagreb, why we don't have boundaries around the neighborhoods, why you who don't live in Zagreb, think a little bit, that in Zagreb with this amount of people you have, the one who lives in Pestnica can't come to Jarun, that's a lot more citizens' concentration, etc. So I think you should think about seeing what I was talking about 10 days ago. Today we have laws on which this assembly is the most legislative body that discusses how much personal, passport, etc. will apply, which do not actually use anything, nor can you travel, nor do other countries receive you, but we do not talk about the right things. Because when someone says they won't train or intend to violate human rights, or train strictness, this is exactly strictness training. So is the law that speaks of cell phone control. Ineffective, unnecessary, and that's what we really need in this state that is extraordinary, no matter what is not declared. And should laws that restrict human rights or not be passed, this shows. Why we make these laws, and we don't have any laws to limit movement. So it's just a situation where it actually stimulates and violates self-insulation, solutions, it's strictly strict, so I'm going to call a few statements because I didn't of course start this with what should be common, thanks to everyone. Of course, thanks to all who do their job, I congratulate them on that, and I especially congratulate those who do this by sacrificing themselves without the equipment and without what they need for the job. I get the most hurt when I hear a sick mother has to fight in more health care institutions so her child can have care. It bothers me when the doctors are called five-coloners, when Mikulić, the chief state inspector from this building, introduces a new measure, regardless of what this assembly did not talk about, and this is psychiatric treatment for those who violate self-insulation. The uniform of the minister who listened to the advice, so he took the police tags off himself, just talking about it and left only civil protection is a good thing. I even thought he'd come in uniform here today, but that's not a good message, the minister isn't the one to wear a uniform, he should wear what he needs to protect, not parade at press conferences, not around. Because the conductor of the orchestra doesn't go to the performers, he stands on stage, conducts, and it's all expensive. This way when people start and they get into everything they're told, of course you have a problem. January 9th was supposed to be a meeting, we heard here today that we're the first state to understand what's going on in China. 26.2. Minister Beros said there is no panic that it is just a more difficult form of flu. In 18.3. we were in a situation where the real crisis started, and in 19.3. we changed the Civil Protection Act, and for those measures that are being taken, I have to mention here only under the law. No one is allowed to do this under the law. So when the police break up a mass gathering of two women, middle-aged women outside the Park Hotel, that's not what we want to see. Because much worse things were, so what follows after the party, after the party is of course usually having worse consequences than I party, but we've had before the party, we're up to 18. There was a free entry from the neighbouring state and it does, of course, election in HDZ. So all these parties that were happening were a much more difficult form of breaking something that would be the rules of what people today are complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196964	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196965	You said you'd warn me for the last two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196966	I warned you, you probably didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196967	I didn't hear you, I'm sorry, but I'll follow the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196968	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and two MPs will speak, respected counterpart of Grmoja, after which fellow Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196969	Thank you, Your Honor. All the topics that are proposed here and coming to the agenda are marked by this situation, an epidemic around the coronary virus, in fact it's the only topic that dominates the public, and here we all as advocates have the need here to present the problems that citizens are talking to us about. I've seen most MPs talk about the problem of e-passes and we now have a bizarre situation that they, what, 400,000 have already been issued. I wrote on Twitter three days ago that before the government will issue 4 million e-passes than admit that such a territorial structure is an unsustainable invention. So, we now have one situation where the ministry has to think about rounding up somehow a unit, it can, I saw that there was one proposal on the territory of police stations, maybe going in that direction at this moment, and when this crisis is over, I hope it ends as soon as possible, going in the direction of territorial reconstruction, one more rational, one more rational division of the country, means where we will no longer have 500 municipalities and cities, where the counties, hopefully, will not go into some regionalisation, because we know that it will never pass, never agree to be under Split, will never agree to be under Zadar, never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka and no regionalisation comes into consideration, but to strengthen municipalities and cities and to reduce their numbers. That's the path we need to go in, and I hope this crisis is a lesson for us. It means to everyone in the government that this situation is simply unsustainable. People are coming to us, here's me from my Neretva saying this is something to do, this is ridiculous, we have a country in other municipalities and cities, in Neretva we have big problems. After all, here are the people texting me, so what our government thinks our people in the villages know how to use the system of e-citizens, does our government think that we all in the villages have the Internet this simple we live here, we're all on cell phones, we think it's a common, normal way of living, but it lives differently in the country, that, that people know very well, the people who live there. Here, they're asking me to react in that sense. They also ask me to react in terms of not having every village and I talked about it in the assembly, this bank, and some people have protected accounts, don't use cards, go to the bank to raise money, I can't get to the banks, these are things that you in the ministry should think about and suggest such solutions. I think we're like an opposition, I won't be as strict as my colleague Ostojic, there'll be time to criticise, now it's time to offer a solution. And I ask the President of the Assembly here, from this place, please continue the session HS on Wednesday, the government did not propose the Moratory Act to perform, our citizens who have been executed, who are blocked deserve a peaceful Easter and let the government propose such a law, gave MOST such a law, gave also colleagues from the SDP, you do not have to accept ours, we will gladly vote for the government's law. And finally just one more measure, I think that's very good and it needs to be taken out of this place, it's a coronary supplement. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a supplement for all those who are on the first line of defence against the coronary virus, a minimum of £2,000 directly as long as these special circumstances last, our doctors, our nurses, our maids in other hospitals that work, and their salary is less than this minimum wage that you have proposed for those who do not work at all, for our police, for our border police, for our army, for all who are at this moment at risk of being infected, but who are exposed to terrible efforts. Please, here is the President of the Assembly to present it to the Prime Minister and please continue the session on Wednesday because the government has announced, but has not yet proposed the Moratorium Act to be applied. Our citizens deserve a peaceful Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196970	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196971	Strong and strong measures in these circumstances of the crown crisis should be taken urgently in this home. Models and ways are clear, and here's what colleagues and say, the opposition supported all legislative proposals and when they were also the first set of measures, here and now we are discussing that even these proposals are that as little physical contact as possible of our people with, in police stations due to lengthened certain documents, that they will be accepted, however, we should also talk about exhausting our officers who are due to territorial reconstruction, I note... Replica, I didn't get an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Territorial means cops are tired, our citizens can't do their jobs in units like that. From Sinj to the island or to the island, Dalmatian or Croats are mentioned, where there are no basics, people don't have banks there, they don't have gas stations and they don't have other things. I can't understand how much energy is being exhausted on our officers and through these passes we haven't essentially solved the problem, but we're exhausting Croatian police officers so that this crown supplement is urgently to be given to people, both in healthcare professionals and all those who are doing work, from Croatian soldiers, police officers, all those who are going to work these Easter holidays, exhausted, for 12 hours, that this supplement is an emergency and this is the measure that we're going to encourage these people to do, not only with praises, but also respected secretaries, I think you're going to pass this on to the Minister. At this time of crisis, it is very important to protect domestic production. I asked the minister, I speak for weeks, for days that import lobbys have torn apart domestic production. At this point, people are in problems that our farmers, who have dairy production, have to spill milk. We see, now they're coming in a bunch of vervain strawberries, so where are the people going to have 500 tons of strawberries now? Where's he going with the crucible material than in the markets? And I repeat here, dear secretary, I also told the minister that there is more security for people in open markets in domestic products than in the trade chains of security measures,... Chains where the import goods are, from Italy, pomidore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which will continue to continue and now import in this crisis to sell Italian pomidores, Spanish strawberries until our products can't be exported to those countries. So he's still doing the import lobby his job undercover. I ask that markets be opened immediately, and that's what the farmers are looking for. In addition to the measures prescribed, if there is not enough in the local self-government of municipal directors, volunteers will go. You've seen cheerleading groups are ready to volunteer to maintain space and that physical distance with all measures. So which is why you're jeopardizing your domestic production, instead of saying now, let's do the processing, divide the agricultural land, flood our fields, you're sending a completely opposite message, you're buying imported goods in the trade chains. Markets, who thought of it, I can't, I'm saying it on this side, that's what farmers say, our O.P.G.s, open up urgently, save what's left of the market. Quartov markets, under everything, of course under the measures they should be, and this way you'll destroy this peasant from the village what's left. Instead of encouraging people to weaponize their fields, ornaments and plant and encourage agricultural production, because these policies have led, in this crisis it is visible what you have done in Croatia all governments. That we don't have self-sufficiency. That's from... A hectare of raw agricultural land and at this point we have no choice but to open markets, but that's what farmers call me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who have wasteful material and those who deal with dairy production and those who have fruit, vegetables. Here, I mentioned Vrgorje strawberries, where are the people with 600 tons of strawberries from Vrgorec? Where are they going with them? And Spanish will be offered on, in trade chains that are more secure here than to be made in this place. Of course, there should be precise and, of course, the biggest savings would be the senselessness of the public administration, you see, i.e. Not the public administration, but the senselessness of the organisation of the Republic of Croatia, and now if we don't see that we need to shut down the county, that they're pointless, that not the biggest money for health and education went to them and that money was directed at them. Where health care is needed, believe me, there would be eyes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196972	We are now going to discuss the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Two MPs, first a colleague, Zekanovic, and then a colleague, Glasovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196973	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We all get a lot of messages, so do I. I just got word from a Mr. Tihomir Quiet from the Dalmatian Burn who's a chronic patient and should go to Split for treatment, but there's no pass. Because of the nature of the disease, I can't even get out, so he asks me how did the state remember to send me a letter to cancel my supplementary health insurance because I didn't pay, but I didn't get it in the mail, by mail to the house, means a pass to go to Split for treatment. The second question to Minister Bozinovic, here are the ministers and other members of the Civilian Staff who have the most modern masks they say are not to be worn, and on the other hand, here is a message from the medical staff who says they cannot carry out adequate checks because there is not enough protective medical equipment or masks or jumpsuits. Like what? cancer patients who are one of the most endangered are simply not treated these days because medical workers do not have enough protective equipment. Instead of obtaining additional protective equipment for medical staff and for all those dealing with this crown crisis, we are thinking here, or not us, but the MUP is thinking about how to track citizens in Croatia, about how to track phones, about QR codes, about the location of citizens, and then we actually hear that in a very short time as many as 440 thousand passes can be issued and cannot be electronically voted. So in voting, we have one criterion, and in issuing passes and controlling citizens, we have another criterion. When we talk about this, I have to point out a particular problem, and it is a technical review or an extension of the traffic licence if it can be without a ID card and passport for a month so that the same prolonging can be done with regard to technical examination or with a traffic licence. After all, people today use cars less, so there will be no adverse consequences if this is prolonged. When we talk about tracking this crisis interestingly, we always have reports from the same countries, we have reports from Italy, we have a report from France and Spain, here and now we have a report from the United States, but we don't have reports from India, for example, we don't talk about India, we don't talk about Malaysia, we don't talk about Indonesia, we don't talk about the Philippines, we don't talk about Brazil, we don't talk about Ecuador. So I list all the countries of the third world, those undeveloped countries or countries where a large part of the population lives in conditions that are not worthy of man at all live in straws. Is there a crown crisis there? Have these countries taken action? Is he dying there or maybe he's not dying? Here I would like to hear in the media, and we hear nothing about how this crisis manifests this epidemic in third-world countries. When we talk about bad examples, no one mentions Belgium, no one mentions Holland. And when we talk about good examples, no one mentions, for example. Hungary, which is twice our size, and there are far less sick than we are. So here we have some double criteria, I have a feeling that we have in the media only those worse examples from the environment of Italy, Spain, France, UK, and while those beautiful examples and countries where the epidemic is, I'm going to tell God thanks doesn't spread, I don't know what reason or not so much as. India, Indonesia, Malaysia, they don't remember, they don't remember. Why don't we talk about these countries because these states out of a billion people have only a few thousand people and I'm curious about what measures they're taking, maybe we can apply them? And lastly, I'm going to refer again to what the minister said that we were a week early with measures or delayed with measures would have been a disaster, if we were early, there wouldn't be any infected. Why aren't we early? Maybe there's a reason for the HDZ election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196974	Here you go, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196975	Dear colleagues, President of the Parliament. Here is Croatia 5th in a row by moving to the EU of its citizens, people go out. But the difference between Poland and Romania they integrated their people into the legal economic order, it does not exist in Croatia. Israel has a return law and it's about these documents here. In 1922, there were 2% of Jews in the Palestinian administration under British rule, today there are 6.5 million. What about outside Croatia? What about the new Citizenship Act? We've been waiting here for, what, 30 years for these people to come back. Some want to go back. What about the third generation that almost forgets Croatian? It seems to me that we have become like Australians and Canadians and other Commonwealth countries who, by the age of fifty and sixty, have sought only white emigration. They wouldn't let the Chinese and the people of Africa, the Caribbean, so today the Croats are out of their homeland no matter what they say to me. This can be easily proven by these procedures, bureaucratic procedures. This bureaucracy generates corruption and we have missed the petty bureaucrats to guide our strategy on the return of Croats outside of the year. Let's say, three years for citizenship, travel administrations, etc. 270 days on average for permits. Bulgaria is ahead of us on that point. Is there even some kind of long-term strategy to bring our people back from the outside? Here are the people who started the International Court in Switzerland, who launched an action to curtail a law there to return money to those who were occupiers here until the integration of Eastern Slavonia. If they had put so much effort into returning Croats outside the country where we would be today. Syrian refugees have greater rights in Canada. Some changed ethnicity 12 times, and they got IDs. A Croat outside the country, I said six hours ago, he can neither vote, he can vote formally, there are hundreds of thousands of people registered as voters, it's his right to be taken away. He's been deprived of the right to return to take care of his grandfather, and we're still talking about democracy here. Do we even need the skills of these people? Of course it took capital when the crowd was. There were billions and billions of dollars coming here for weapons, I will mention only one small action called "The Movement for Life" that was before the war, where the Croats from Toronto sent millions of dollars for children without parents and they continued and after, during the war for orphans Croatian here. What about the SOA, the SOA found out that 40 members worked in our service against the Croatian people until '95, did they have IDs? Do they? Do the associates of the former Secret Service who worked against their people have any IDs? Yeah, they sure do. The EU's response to the crisis was mentioned by Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission President Marshall's plan, so we have half a million Croats in Germany alone, and this is our Marshall plan. How much money comes out here? What would happen to the pension system if it wasn't for those people and other systems here? But no, we ignored them, we waited another year for citizenship and we played Democrats and this cosmopolitan here. We remember the U.N. Department of Assistance and Reconstruction, '47. The year came in that "South" 416 million dollars, which today is worth 14 times more and it saved Yugoslavia from hunger. These saved us in the war of hunger, our citizens out of country, and they can't, they can't go back. What now? Here, there are some questions we don't have an answer for, I'm the answer to those IDs. The world is ruled by birth dysphoria, these certificates are changed, birth certificates. Some now plead as men and women, it's no longer a joke but a reality. These birth certificates are being changed, they want to come here in Croatia, even though we're already giving people a credit card, we want to put these cards on people who worked against.../incomprehensible/... for in the former system their code names? Some of them are sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196976	It is now the turn of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196977	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. This package of four laws should be welcomed anyway. Any move to protect our citizens from any unnecessary exposure to COVID 19 should be welcomed. But I think we should ask ourselves today as we pass this law, why, why we haven't so far been better informed and electronic teamed up and why it's even necessary to pass these laws in the 21st century, why it's not possible that all these necessary documents can't be completely removed, i.e. Run the process of extracting these documents via the Internet, via the portal e-Citizens, and why, I think, have we brought ourselves into this situation that at this time simply with a few mouse clicks we can't simply order these documents to get us home? In fact, here, the debate crystallized that actually passports and IDs would, I mean, ID cards would actually be for internal use. Why is it that such passports, unless they send notes with these countries, at least the EU, I think we will find it very difficult to cross the borders. But from what I understand, these standards are about travel documents, that this easier, return of Croats from abroad to Croatia. What I'd like to say again is that I think we should work on making that contact between citizens and, let's say, bureaucracy, that is. means the M.O.P. departments that issue such documents and, in future, reduce it because we know how much it is actually, how difficult it is when a man has to take out new documents, if he has to take out, I don't know, his ID or passport or any of those documents, he can count on it for at least one day that he'll have to spend just on standing in order and so I think this is a good opportunity for us to simply send that kind of, that way of doing these jobs to the art of history. When this set of laws was passed, I'm only sorry that it might not have thought about bringing immediate changes to the residence law in this situation. In fact, there is an institute of residence in the Housing Act, which means a shorter establishment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in places means that they do not have a permanent residence, but they have a place to stay, and it is up to the Institute to actually depend on the use of some sort of material rights that are linked to the units of local self-government. Some, once, mean that, the Institute's place of residence must be restored, so the application of the residence must be renewed every year, i.e. every year. After a year has passed. I think that once certain the number of our citizens will run out of residence, they will no longer be able to extend it, and the question is, what problems will all be faced with. In addition to these material rights that are potentially created at the level of local self-government, there may be problems if a stricter, more epidemiological measure is introduced, and let's say that they are not allowed to leave their home, no one should leave their home, then the question of where these people will go, where they will be, because then they will remain only the home address, and that residence address may no longer be returned for objective reasons. So, I think it's a very serious problem, and here's what I'm proposing to the ministry to look at it and look at the fact that it's a legal matter, and I don't think it's just a decision of the ministry to derrogate or prolong it, and I think it's going to have to be the same law here. I'd like to say, since I'm already here, they've touched here and everyone's been talking about the problem means e-pass. I also agree that this may be such a strict restriction on the individual units of local self-government in these circumstances where we have so many units of local self-government that some of them are so small that they don't have all the necessary, complete infrastructure for life where people simply have to go from one municipality to another, if anything else pours gasoline. I think you should think about finding a new, different territorial coverage that doesn't necessarily have to, or, I don't know, be in line with some previous or existing territorial structure, you can simply, I don't know, pull the border on, say, police administrations or, why not, the whole county. As far as I'm concerned, and maybe I'm wrong to understand that the problem was intrastate migration in terms of large-town migration towards smaller environments when it started talking about isolation and that it was burdening local self-government and that it was creating a certain fear of what would happen if some disease of such individuals temporarily came to their homes for rest, but this situation where people are simply distracted by their everyday life activities, I don't think it's what was meant to achieve with such measures. And I would also like to touch what many colleagues today spoke about the markets. I don't see why the market is more of an epidemiological threat than any major store, any chain of commerce, I don't know as much as any of you have recently been in one of the major sales chains in the store, and outside you're waiting for some time in order, this line that's being created outside the store, sometimes people stick to the prescribed space, sometimes not, once you get inside, so it's kind of an impression that people don't fully respect that 2m gap, possibly when you're waiting on the register, you're driving the slalom between other people and they're all trying to get away with each other, but with more or less success, and there's still a closed space. If the markets were to get better, we're talking about open-air sales here, so there's still a slightly smaller possibility of transmission and in some slightly better-controlled circumstances I think it might work, and it's not a waste and the fact that the closure of the market is going to cause us a lot of suffering from the OPGs and our domestic farmers. There, the HNS Club will certainly support these four laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196978	We are now going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the two representatives will also speak, the first colleague is Žagar, after him, a colleague of Orepic, and you will have a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196979	Thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We mostly work in the Republic of Croatia, our systems operate the truth is many times we don't know how actually. Our health system, which has endured the greatest burden and has largely proved to be quite successful in the struggle with a vicious epidemic in the sense that we do not have the exponential growth of this disease, so this system has been created long ago, with all its flaws it has managed to maintain this level of health care in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? We have a central office for digital society. Many of us and MPs today even though we had some reports at plenary sessions in HS, we don't really know what this office is doing and what it has done besides digitising existing documents. And everything that we haven't done so far is now going to be charged, so I'm not surprised by this package of laws that actually allows for the extension of the validity of certain documents, if nothing else for citizens to pay the fine because their document is expired. Like what? if the person has expired not to pay 500,00 kn, to allow them to use it until this danger passes because they do not have to physically go to the police station to extend that document because we are still a country of counters and seals even though we intend to stop being. For illustration, the town of Bokaana in the municipality of Voćin is only a few kilometers away from the central town of Voćina. Do you know how many letters he travels from Voćin to Bokana? Eight days, you heard right, eight days. HP, what the state orders services from HP, a third of these services are sent to send letters between individual state bodies, so, then these letters physically go. So we have to admit that in this area we haven't done anything, we can't say anything, something's done, but we haven't done enough anyway. And that's why it's not surprising, and this one's talking about the pass, March 23rd, the minister, excuse me, secretary of state, has made a decision to ban the movement outside of the place of residence and residence, keep an eye out. It was later interpreted as not referring to the municipality's border, but why not write the municipalities and not the places. In the Republic of Croatia we have 128 cities, 428 municipalities and 6756 towns, settlements. So it was very clear in the headquarters's decision that the pass refers to leaving the place of residence, 6756. Well, let's not be surprised now, as it's said, as a chickenworm, that we have so many passes. Civil headquarters was supposed to sit with, always, always saying government doesn't do that. We have a 555+1 unit of local self-government, so let's sit down with these people, organize the Republic of Croatia. It could've been done, Art. 54. The Law on Local Self-Government states that more municipalities can establish a common body, so more municipalities and cities could establish a joint headquarters, so that the headquarters would issue passes for leaving the area. Territorial reconstruction is certainly a subject to think about, but it's something else. This could have been solved in a very, very appropriate and to say, a reasonable way and today we wouldn't have these problems, which we have because we're really being called by citizens. I've been reprimanded several times as an advocate and said well because you represent our citizens, so what do we do, we don't have a butcher's shop, we don't have, and the post office is now closed in these times, they don't have people, schools stop, so people no longer have anything in their place where, where they live, they have to leave that place, and accuse them of being, that they're undisciplined because they're looking for a pass, it's not good at all. So this set of laws will certainly be supported because it must be made possible for citizens to have their documents valid in this way so that they do not pay the fine and that they can continue to function normally, but in the future we should definitely think about, that these things, and we have the possibility of simply being in such a bureaucratized country as we are, that this is no longer happening, that we really reduce that red tape to a smaller measure, which we can do. And one more thing, Secretary of State, very important. In these large numbers of headquarters that people do today, they do serious work, hard work. There are many members of Civil Protection whether they are from DVD or they are members of the Civil Protection themselves, who are very valuable now doing the job, and many of them themselves are unemployed. Think about giving them some compensation, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196980	We continue with the debate that is divided, the next one is Orepic. Here's a colleague of mine. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196981	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I want to take the opportunity and say it's okay when we meet our citizens in this way to allow them to solve problems in a simpler way that means this situation. But we're in this situation because we've been passing this law that we're now supplementing in a hasty procedure when it shouldn't have gone in a hurry procedure. If we hadn't gone through an emergency procedure, we'd have thought about that law, we'd assume all the variations, and we'd have assumed a solution to what to do in extraordinary situations like the one we're dealing with. I insist that we must be legalists, we must respect the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, the fact is that we are in a state of emergency and we have to declare it, it involves this House of the High in decision-making processes in this crisis situation. It's a key thing to say that we justify why we're even sitting in this hall or any other hall where we're sitting. The key thing is to bring reality into line with the normative. Now here's a banana example. Minister of Health based on the Law on the Protection of Publicity, Art. The 47th is the only one who can make a decision on quarantine to express myself, i.e. restrictions on movement, etc. What's happening to us, but that law means compensation. If we knew that, we wouldn't suggest some sort of crown fee or I don't know what other fees, but the minister is obliged or has the possibility to lay down the amount of compensation already provided under the law under that law. Unbelievable, and we bring a restriction on movement under the Civil Protection Act. The 22nd point, which in any sentence at all, does not speak in a sentence about a situation that involves infectious diseases, protection from infectious disease, or this situation where we are. So that's our absolute discrepancy with the laws that exist that I can't even read, obviously as if we don't know. Here, I'm going to ask a few simple questions, which law are prescribed and what measures to disobey a decision to ban movement without a pass, what law does that make? From everything suggested to conclude that somehow on the back of this crisis it wants to profit in another direction. Can we conclude and guess now? I know the heresy is now attacking the Civil Protection Command because if we can't, we should applaud. We will not applaud where we should not applaud, there have been much worse situations, much worse situations where the law was respected, where the state was respected. If the movement is limited, it shall be based on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The 47th is the minister of health who is obliged to deliver and compensation according to that, the amount of compensation, of course, in agreement with the finance minister in line with the possibilities. A whole series of these issues stemming from this illegal act, this unconstitutional act concludes that the HDZ has set out in pre-campion, pre-electional pre-camping, bringing such populist measures that suit a large number of inhabitants, who can read good intentions, etc. It's the only conclusion. So there's no stopping to conclude something rational except for something like that because we have the basis for existing laws on measures that we insist on looking for, we're passing some weird laws, laws on the law. Please, this is a crisis situation let's commit ourselves to making an emergency situation, Parliament is a place of obligation and duty to participate in decision-making processes when these circumstances are in the state and it must be respected and maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196982	Thank you, too. I'd like a little intervention before the final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The last debate is on behalf of the club of MPs is a debate by fellow Sanader in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Secretary of State, all your colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also taking this opportunity primarily to thank all those who are working on this crisis today, all healthcare professionals, all our officers, all our firefighters, as well as all the members of the Staff who report us daily, and are working on these problems permanently. Here is a set of 4 laws, 4 interventions in a legislative framework that needs to be dealt with well this issue and ID cards and driver's licenses and passports and armed papers means all of those documents that many of us have, many of us, the driver's passport and some 100,000 Croatian hunters' licenses, so these are certainly important documents to keep in mind that so many people and here if we have seen the record that some 500,000 such documents are issued annually then we know how much of the need to intervene and that this legislative framework has intervened through these 4 laws for these 4 important documents to protect the primary meaning, these are also all the speakers of my predecessors said to protect our fellow citizens and to reduce this social contact which is most crucial in this issue of transmission of the virus that can be most dangerous in this social contact. The HDZ Club here, we heard from one of the previous speakers gave another one, asked for another additional clarification through the amendment where we wanted, so that no different interpretations would occur, and these four laws, to be put here not to end the epidemic, but to declare the end of the epidemic, not to cease the epidemic, but to cease the end of the epidemic, so that it was a clear formulation, although alone in the law for all four laws, it was clearly defined that these decisions and this legislative intervention were only valid during the epidemic, or 30 days behind. So, I think this was commendable and necessary and good to react in such a way that it did not come into any doubt about this situation. Here it is also, said a few things that might well be looked at, the question perhaps even some other activities or some other documents or other obligations that our citizens have, and when they need to go to places where more people are gathering. Surely it's worth the discussion to see this matter of technical examination, but I think that, personally, I think it's very questionable to question our means of transport and our vehicles and to leave the possibility that a vehicle is technically incorrect because it threatens, again, a large number of people, although today it's a time of less traffic, and then maybe you can think about it and see that kind of variant, which would mean if it were made. I don't agree with the attitudes expressed here, I don't know, that cops don't have protective equipment because, here, all the checkpoints and everything where I've had contact with the cops I've seen that they're well equipped, that they have full equipment, if some cop's currently taking off gloves or a mask somewhere, then surely that's no reason to declare now that the police don't have protective equipment because it's incorrect information and certainly, I think that you here from the ministry, too, clearly, you have to confirm it, and we see it every day that it's not true. Furthermore, the issue of the start when this crisis began, here it was immediately identified, of course, with both the legal and the political game, and it was said among other things, that it was the HDZ radio, that it had its own internal elections, and therefore allowed, first I have to say here, but also for the sake of the Croatian public, that no citizen from the neighbouring country participated in our internal elections because our party has a territorial organisation, so it must be registered in the territory of Croatia. But here, in order not to be identified and not to make it false here, in the sense that the time of the start of the measures was timed, when 29.1., or 28.1. at the energy conference "Energy 2020." Prime Minister Plenkovic made a statement, then many mocked her, and said, "The health ministry is an important responsibility that we have at this time as chairman and as a country that is together with others, it must be prepared to defend itself against the widespread epidemic of coronary virus. This requires the full focus of the ministry on these topics." So that was 28.1. From 28.1. here, this statement makes it clear that we were already in intensive activity related to this preparation and action of the battle against the coronaryvirus. So they're inaccurate and malicious infor.../incomprehensible/... here are statements that say it's tied to a vote within the HDZ. Here was a good proposal from a previous colleague, that the organization was a pass. Surely, we can talk about whether there are problems, which are problems, solving problems if they have the difficulties of people on the ground, but surely one of the good measures is here proposed by Mr. Sagar, which is legally possible, that more units of local self-government, means no more settlements, but more units of local self-government under the Civil Protection Act can organise a joint civil protection headquarters. So maybe even through this debate we should invite our people on the ground to less, especially smaller municipalities, see ways and opportunities to create joint headquarters or even to bond with larger communities. This particular can be for our islands, which can then make civil protection headquarters for the entire island and thus resolve the issue of passes, but certainly citizens have shown this through polls and public statements, that these passes were made primarily to protect the public. It is not for the sake of any strictness training, nor for any abuse, but primarily for the protection of human health, and therefore for the safety of people. So it's incorrect to switch it to anything else, and it's also not right to insult people in the country and say that people in the country don't have Internet, that people in the villages don't have cell phones. We know that every fellow citizen who has a cell phone, has the internet and has the possibility of correspondence, and that the older households are helped by younger people, the Red Cross is well organized, has made himself available to the Croatian people and leaves the possibility of helping anyone, anyone who has problems, should report to their headquarters civil protection, and I am sure that human beings can solve any problem, and malevolence in these activities can be found whenever someone wants to. If the problem is to be solved, I think we must all be unique in solving the problem, that we must invest our overall strength and that is the best way to overcome this situation. On behalf of the HDZ Club, clearly, we will support all these four laws along with this amendment, which will then be evaluated by the legislator, but I think it would be good, just to find ourselves in any situation to begin to interpret when the epidemic is over and when the epidemic is stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196984	Thank you. I'd like a little intervention before the individual debate begins. The first is his colleague Pernar, a colleague of Pernar, who does not have the right to debate in accordance with Article 233. Next fellow Bulj, colleagues in accordance with Article 233 loses their right to debate. Next is colleague Angelko Striker, he's here, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196985	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues who told us two months ago that the world would be affected by an epidemic of literally biblical proportions that stopped the world, and in some countries and destroyed the hospital systems, I believe that no one would believe it. Because of the coronary epidemic, our lives have changed completely in one day, conferences, cultural sports events, travel, gatherings and gatherings are cancelled. We are daily in front of small screens, we follow the report and the instructions of the crisis headquarters, calls for action "to stay home" and publication of the media. By the way, we follow the situation in a world that's a little scary, so we read, the Italian army drives the bodies of the dead from the crown virus, the crematorium works uninterrupted New York to step up to disaster, the mayor urgently asks for 3,000 respirators and so on. When we follow such news normally to ask ourselves where is Croatia in all of this? So Croatia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the outbreak of the coronary virus and at the rate of the infected and at the rate of mortality. This means that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the crisis headquarters make decisions in good time, and all services and institutions of the police, military, firefighters, doctors, nurses, civil protection, or all involved, are doing their job well under the new circumstances. In order to continue to successfully fight the outbreak of the coronary virus, it is important that as many citizens as possible remain at home. For these very reasons, i.e. that the fewer citizens are coming to the police station counters, the government has, in an emergency parliamentary procedure, given the additions to the 4th laws proposing the extension of the duration of the documents and permits issued, 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The I.D. Act provides that the person who owns it must submit a request for a new one, for example. for the following reasons, if it has expired, if personal data on its personal name have changed, if it has changed its residence in the Republic of Croatia, if the photo on the identity card no longer corresponds to the person’s appearance, if the identity card is damaged, if it is partially or completely broken or for any other reason does not serve its purpose, it shall be possible to use it and would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. In order to enable our citizens currently located outside the Republic of Croatia to return i.e. the passports issued, and they expire during the duration of the epidemic, were proposed by the law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, they would be considered valid 30 days from the end of the epidemic. The additions of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens shall allow citizens to make certain actions required within the prescribed time limits such as the submission of applications for the issue of an armed list for weapons supplied, the delivery of assurances of health skills or documents to have the technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons and the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and other weapons, and whose deadline of undertaking falls during this epidemic, to do so when conditions are obtained, or 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The additions to the Road Safety Act also enable the use of issued driving licences, which expires for a period of longer than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. It is evident from the above that all measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including these amendments to those laws, aim to protect human lives and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that the proposals to extend the validity of the identity card, passport, driver's license and the armed list are welcome and another measure in the fight against the coronary epidemic of the virus. I'll support those laws of supplementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196986	Thank you, too, please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, fellow Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196987	You said and started your speech that someone told us two months ago, so I ask if you heard that statement mentioned by Mr. Ante Sanader of 26.1. that the prime minister then warned Croatia and the European public about the dangers of the coronary virus, and I would remind you that 19.3 was the first measure or amendment of the Civil Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196988	Let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196989	I could have said two or three months ago, but that goes to 28. January.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196990	Thank you. We no longer have replicas, please intervene and continue the debate of colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196991	Dear colleagues and colleagues here today have already been told a lot about this package of measures that we are discussing today, and how we were actually discussing on Friday a package of measures that will help the economy, this is today one package of interventions in 4 laws to even better endure this state of emergency and crisis for the sake of coronary disease, and in a way that allows our fellow citizens not to suffer certain consequences that may have or may not come into breach due to the non-expropriation of certain IDs or travel documents or a valid armed list or driver's license. I think this proposal in all 4 interventions in all four laws is justified and good for the reasons that we know ourselves and when certain regular conditions are always on the counters of our police administrations and orders for exactly the extension and identity cards and travel documents, as well as the driving licenses that most of our citizens use and have. And in order to really for these reasons of the epidemic that we have avoided such crowds on the counters, I think this kind of intervention in these laws is really justified. We ourselves know that the extension of such cards is due to two arrivals in the police administration, once for the submission of requests, and the second time for the takeover of these documents when they are finished, and not to mention that it is also necessary to have some photographs to make these documents, and given now these specific conditions in which we live when it is not possible to realize to go and maybe we don't have some spare photos at home, I think these situations are really justified, not only to protect our fellow citizens who are in this need but also employees of police administrations working on counters. Here I would really say to this occasion that we all have to think together in this situation of how to trust each other, to believe in the justification of everything we're doing in this difficult situation and really try to be responsible together to contribute in any way to stopping this disease as soon as possible and to getting all together back into the normal lifestyle that we had until a few months ago. I think that's our goal, and I really welcome every measure that will continue to be taken in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196992	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Hrvoje Zekanovic. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. He loses his right to debate. The next debate is from counterpart Ostojic, so the word is spoken. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196993	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will first of all talk about the issue of residence since an invasion of islands and Dalmatia has been allowed, etc. of 7.1. Since we bring here laws on the extension of certain things, the system of residence or residence does not function. I may be wrong, but everyone has a chance to use those regular legal options, so I think it's important to inform citizens about it. Secondly, we have not reached a solution, of course, as to how the police are replacing sanitary inspectors, we have not solved the situation as far as it is concerned, I guess today that the Staff has powers, but its powers are limited, and this Parliament may be bombed by similar laws as these today, and the real crucial question is whether we welcome them. I'll indicate we're one maybe important part, and that's the issue of crisis profiting. It was promised that it would be settled, I think that these are the things that are happening at the moment because some, as always, take advantage of the situation to profit in these crises, and I think it would be very important to come before this House. We need unity, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, the situation I warned about the pass I think is perfectly clear and that it is not understanding the situation on the ground itself. I've given specific examples. As for the issues of concealment, I ask you not to understand this because I see that the heresy has turned out to say anything, but it is necessary to say when certain things you consider to be a better solution, so the better solution is to make too many zones in which it works and works. I cited this as an example of Zagreb, and I think it is very important. I repeat, the unity yes, but not in the creation of chaos because what we now have between the municipalities to create obstacles on the mountainous roads is something that is really unnecessary and extremely wasteful for those who are, in one way or another, overworked with their work, specifically speaking about police officers. I think it's also important not to be allowed because the procedure is democracy. Democracy doesn't have without procedure and what I want to send as an important message, which is at this point being ignored by the Criminal Procedure Act. I didn't talk for no reason about police officers being burdened by having to do video shoots and stuff, that's when the law was, of course, rejected. And today we have a situation that everything that's done in these conscious conversations won't be used in a variant when it comes to the DORH for reasons you didn't want to accept the situation then, which is that the police can't do it at all times and in every way. And it will fall because such things no one has the right of course to suspend the Code of Criminal Procedure or ignore it. Let's also not embellish reality. In the center of the town of Kvatric, a student lost one thing, stealing. The presence of the police can't just be in the center, don't let what we know happens at this point. In Chucher, people guard their village at night, even with motor saws if necessary, this country cannot afford it. And I think it's very important that we don't embellish things but to do them in a way, which is true, the unity that, all of us, help, do everything to protect each other, but don't forget that there's a field. I just want to send a message, this isn't a competition in that when someone said something, I listed the exact dates. But I must say that the issue of reacting HS to the defence of democracy in the situation that we are the ones who have to protect the most procedure of that phalling must not be and the headquarters has no authority to replace the parliament and it must not happen in any case. If you need to be here every day, make those decisions, if you haven't already accepted that this extraordinary situation is also something that could be applied and a different article of the Constitution, I want to say for my part, we also said, support, yes, but not in creating chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196994	Thank you. Stay here, have one replica, here's your colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196995	A colleague Ostojić, not to mention important things, is one of the important things and that citizens have generally listened to the recommendation "stay home" and they need a big thank you. And when they need to walk on a promenade or a mountain path, it's limited to them, and even the police act. I think it's too much and we don't need it, and on the other hand we're coming to the Republic of Croatia our fellow citizens, but we see even strangers coming to us catamarans yesterday in Zadar and they're going to be sent to self-insulation after taking the wipe. Do you think this should have been more severed and quarantined, thus preventing the spread of the infection in the Republic of Croatia because citizens are solidarity with each other, being safe, guarding each other, and coming at us with danger from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196996	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196997	1.4. We had 3467 people who were violating self-insulation, and the numbers were shrinking. But I can't answer that. However, a much bigger problem is that it cannot even answer your headquarters. To my question from a month ago whether to wear a mask or not, to this day we still don't know the answer. So when someone tells me that people are protected from wearing masks and gloves then let me know if it's necessary for us all to have or not, and that's what people are looking for and what they need, and for everything else they will answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196998	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, a small, little intervention after counterpart Ostojić, colleague Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u196999	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and fellow MPs. The law's intensities are good, but I don't know if I'm going to vote for him. I mean, I'm in a big dilemma. Much more difficult restrictions and things applied to a large number of Croatian citizens have been taken by the Civil Protection Staff, and then for a small administrative measure that actually helps citizens, the decision of the assembly is sought. And why couldn't this technical measure be brought by the Civil Protection Staff? We both know that those measures that are now in force, which have been adopted by the Civil Protection Staff, which constitute restrictions on the rights of the Constitution, restrictions on citizens of the rights of the Constitution, should also not have brought about a staff but a council, either in the worst case, the Government or the Ministers of Health, by virtue of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Why am I saying that? So, for the fourth time from this booth, I will call for a decision to ban leaving the place of residence, to be corrected in a way that areas that are not allowed to leave to be in line with the former territorial system, not with the current one, not because the former system is territorially better, perhaps, but that is not important at the moment, but because these areas are defined as areas where every citizen in that area can exercise some of his own rights. For example, on the island of Brac we have 3 gas stations, and 8 municipalities, we have 3 malls located in one unit of local self-government. The island is usually almost isolated because it's very hard to get on a ferry and there's not one infected, the number of people in self-insulation, I think, is now one-digit. In fact, I no longer see the need for any restrictions that we have in the rest of the Republic of Croatia to be present more on the islands. So you can't come to us, no one's infected, here's the people in self-insulation, and then you can think that the restrictions that are justified are still in other parts of the Republic, they're being abolished. For example, there is a procession behind the cross on the island of Hvar on a big Thursday. In order for it to even be held in this narrow form, which is with 5 to 10 people in the procession, they need to win a pass because they pass through the municipality of Jelsa and the town of Stari Grad in two, in two parishes located there. That's also absurd. Therefore, my appeal is again that these areas where they are not allowed to leave without a pass to, to be corrected in a way that they are the territories of former municipalities. What Mr. Sanader just said in, in his debate on behalf of the club, if I get it right, he supports that intensity, if I didn't get it right, we'll correct it in a replica or in an individual debate, but that's to be corrected. Because still if we were to bring all the counties together, then no, when, if we put that county that can't be left, the first one would still be twice as small as the City of Zagreb, which, with 800,000 inhabitants, represents one area that shouldn't be abandoned. Therefore, the decision as is now written and applied is an disproportionate restriction on the right of citizens to move, especially from smaller backgrounds. Thus, it is one discrimination based on a place of residence that is not proportionate to the danger that is removed by that decision. So the village of 100 inhabitants and the city of 800 000 inhabitants is far greater than the spread of the infection in the city of 800 000 people, so there are no restrictions, and there are restrictions between two villages with 100 and 500 inhabitants because there is an administrative border between them of a municipality, and there is an area which the state authorities recognise as unique because most of the state institutions are set up so that there is one facility by former municipalities. The other thing is, the second thing is the current non-application of the Law on residence and residence of citizens about not being able to apply or extend residence. So some citizens did not find themselves guilty of a situation that could be considered semi-legal. So before the decision takes effect on the ban on leaving the place of residence or permanent residence has gone somewhere, we would like to legalise that status, and I cannot apply for a residence where they are now. And that way, and that would be useful, the state would at least have the data of how many people there are right now, and then it could possibly adapt to some of the health and other services that could be done in that area. I have some ideas so we can work this out, but I don't have time to tell them anymore, so I'm going to add the written discussion to the secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197000	Thank you. Please stay here, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197001	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Bauk, here's a chance to extend the debate further. In fact, when you talk about the boundaries of areas that citizens shouldn't leave without a pass, they could be former municipalities, I couldn't agree more. But it would be enough to send the Staff or the Government now to the units of local self-government a memo in which they will return back to the reasonable limits. The local administration units will do so within two hours, send which is too much of an area within which it cannot move without the citizens' pass. And with you, I agree, there are municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that are small municipalities, even more municipalities if we say the entire former municipality of Podravska Slatina we combine into one whole there are no more than 20 and some thousand inhabitants. So these are things that can be resolved to benefit the citizens, and ultimately security would be respected because there would be no danger to the threat of the population from the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197002	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197003	Thank you. So I noticed that as soon as that decision was made to make these more logical areas the intensity of the decision would remain the same, only there would be no more 500,000 e-passes but there would be maybe 50,000 e-passes. I will ask the Minister of Administration how many passes apply to areas of former municipalities which should then no longer issue passes for that number of citizens. I have to say it myself, I don't think this is why we should change the territorial structure. So the territorial structure usually needs to function under normal circumstances, it's not a good state of emergency to use to change regular things. So it's not freedom of movement that should be limited in a normal situation. So that's one instinct. The local headquarters might do it, but why take responsibility for themselves because everything's fine until it's first infected, and then when it's first infected, they'll ask the local headquarters why you did it. So it is better to make a decision centralised and that local headquarters apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197004	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras. A colleague of Maras doesn't have an article. 233. He loses his right to debate. We continue with an individual debate, the last reported debate within the time foreseen to report the debate is a debate from counterpart Ante Sanader. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197005	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I agree with what Mr. Sagar said, and Mr. Bauk, it is clear that these are situations where we need to find the best forms of how the system will work. No one's desire nor the sense of making some kind of strict measure that will be the purpose of who? You're on your own. So the meaning and desire and purpose of all the measures being taken is to protect the public, human health comes first. It's the only meaning, the only interest and the only reason why all these measures are being taken. I think it's clear to all of us that every benevolent accepts it because it's the fate of all of us, the health of all of us. And just being unreasonable wouldn't accept everything that's reasonable. And the headquarters and all those who eventually make such decisions and the local headquarters will always accept every good idea, no one was born smart. So today we're making changes to the law, four laws, why don't we bring something new tomorrow if we see that something doesn't work in the field and in life. So there are solutions, there are possibilities of this kind of joint headquarters. It could be the headquarters of a big city with a smaller city, just taking into account what Bauk said, that these measures don't bring new infections then it'll be a problem, and that's not a wish to anyone. And in that sense I was saying we need to be unique, these aren't things where we need to compete who's smarter than we have to look together for the best solutions like in any crisis, any disaster. I've had a lot of experience with fires and big fires and catastrophic situations and we've never had a fight over solving problems. Every normal accepts all good suggestions, all good remarks, and so does headquarters. And today's debate should be a message to the headquarters for good remarks. We're unfortunately talking a little bit about these laws, these four legal solutions are they well written, we don't have that practical thing to say, but we have what we're saying out of life. What we get every day, many of you come across people from the field, your fellow citizens come to you, acquaintances come forward and say something doesn't work, something needs to be done. Here, so I believe and I'm sure, and I know people who work at headquarters that everyone will be well-intentioned to accept all the good suggestions and ideas. And in that sense, let our debate go today. Here I'd like to use this last minute of debate to say a few words about firefighters because here I am daily with my firefighters on the ground, we don't have a special headquarters we're part of a normal total headquarters, but here's correct for the sake of the citizen to know that the activities that the firefighters are doing with this regular fire extinguishing here yesterday we had, for example. 61 fires of open space throughout Croatia. There wasn't a single disaster, but yesterday they were working canaders, just for the record. And here's like an appeal to fellow citizens, maybe some people use this situation a little bit and go into the field, which they can go won't get infected, but to make sure they don't start and do something that can cause a fire and then lead the firefighters into a commitment to go to the intervention, and then that makes it possible for firemen to get infected. But well, thank God there are no such contagions, firemen have a system, well organized, they have protection, and so far there have been no such cases. But here's just as a note 1,500 firefighters are engaged daily on these measures against the coronary virus. So that's what they're all about and helping the police on checkpoints and transports, headquarters and everything they need, especially in smaller areas, you know that in small places there are firemen for everyone, to help with all the interventions, that these local headquarters, headquarters in small towns, they're practically the first hand, so here, here. That's a thousand and a half firefighters. In Zagreb alone, there were 2773 interventions, following the earthquake. Secondly, today 9 counties outside the city of Zagreb are helping the city of Zagreb. So 9 ladders, high scales from 9 counties are now in Zagreb and helping, and before that was 6 in the last shift. So they work actively, the fire department acts as one system throughout Croatia, and it is now seen in this situation, here, I welcome all my firefighters, thank them and support for their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197006	Please stay, we have two replicas here. First up, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197007	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sanader, it is an ideal opportunity to show unity in a replica like this. So, as far as decision-making is concerned... Will you just give me back some time? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, as far as decision-making is concerned, I think it's a good thing that there is a body that can make a decision that would come into effect immediately in a situation like this. I'm not sure it should be the Civil Protection Staff, I think it's better to be the Government and then, in one reasonable time, to come to the confirmation of democratically elected bodies in whose authority it is, such as the Parliament. My message to the citizens is, respect the decisions of the Staff, the Government, the laws, but continue to criticize them after you respect them and spend them because they can be better. It's democracy. So this, too, we've been proposing for some time to bring these areas into line with life situations, and so let it be done, after 2 weeks, that this measure has been adopted and that it's obviously in the number of infected, what's being published, and it's given some results. This is my humble, modest contribution to unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197008	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197009	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. Well, that's exactly what I said in my debate, and this debate today is our chance to make our remarks about what we see, what life brings us, what our voters, our citizens, our people, our locals, the locals, who we have contact with, our fellow citizens, and no one is opposed to it. Yes, of course. And then we suggest it to the Chief of Staff. Here, from today's debate, all this good we've heard that, we have the opportunity to improve the system, we suggest it to the Staff, if the Headquarters wouldn't accept it, then we could talk about the headquarters usurping power, but look. The headquarters must function, in crisis situations you can't wait for some, it's like a war, you can't wait for some decisions for a long time, decisions have to be made, and a report is submitted to the government and the Parliament here. Clearly, there is no alternative, democracy has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197010	Last line, here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197011	Thank you, dear colleague Sanader. Let's just point it out one more time. So, when we criticise these measures, that doesn't apply to it, nor do we think the intensity was the Staff that, as you say, usurped power. Everyone in this serious situation, the message of the Staff, with this restriction of movement was to the citizens, that the situation is extremely serious and that any unnecessary movement of the population should be prevented. But what citizens from the field tell us is that there are also victims of those who need to, who need to move. So, we need to keep that unnecessary movement to a minimum, but we can't disable the necessary movement, so go to a doctor, to a pharmacy, to a butcher shop or somewhere where people need supplies. Although it can be said that people can go, to them, many of them create significant problems, and because of this, these Staffs, in fact these measures should be adapted to the lives of the population, and I especially join you in thanking all firefighters in many small municipalities, DVDs are the ones who have put up with the great burden of the Staff itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197012	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197013	I don't think there are any municipalities that don't have a home of health or a hospital, a health care facility. But if there are such, then there should be, people from that field warn it and it has to be solved, and then when he comes to his primary health care doctor, if he guides him further into hospital treatment, so that manual is a pass that a man can pass there. No one's unreasonable, there's no, there's no robots, there's live people standing there. And I've witnessed it, I've been with my firemen there at the checkpoints, and people have understanding, there's no such problem. But if there are any such problems, then it is necessary to clearly warn and send such, such a remark, here are our representatives, our Staff, if the Staff will not bring it out here publicly, but I doubt there are such ones in the Staffs, and this state and the county, and especially the city and municipal, there are reasonable people who solve the problem and whose task it is. So I believe that if there are such things, let me know where, which we'll sort out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197014	Thank you. I'm asking for an intervention. Here you go. You may, Comrade Maras, be my guest. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I beg you, since this isn't the first time, these are spé.../incomprehensible/... so the Rules of Procedure has been injured in terms of holding a session, the very way we're working now is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but there was a deal between clubs at the Bureau of Parliament. What I would ask you, since we can't be present in the hall, to try to take care of that the MPs who checked in here, but that moment weren't inside and it's not happening to me right now, it's the first time that I'm not here, and here I've been out a little bit, so I came back, to allow people to argue if they're in the hall, and right now they're not in, if they're in The building, and they're not in the hall right now. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Here, I'll ask, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197016	I'll ask professional services to see who's here, who's not. I can't pay you back because I took your word. [[Intruder Maras: Yes, I ask you to return the word to me.]] Thank you. We're moving on. [[And why did you take my word for it?]] All right, please, colleague Maras, let's get on with the final... [[I've been outside the hall.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197017	I mean, don't just do the form of the Croatian Parliament. So we're sitting here, we should be able to argue. If it's not the conditions for us to work, don't work, but don't work just to form a session of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197018	We don't work for form. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197019	Thank you. She is the same business base as her colleagues, Maras, and you yourself and Mr. Sanader, the vice president of the Parliament are witnessing that I am at the session of the Parliament's presidency, which was held the first day we started here to discuss, asked that, not to apply a strict provision on the loss of words when there is no one in the hall because physically cannot be in the hall. Then I remained misunderstood, and only in this debate, Mr. Zekanovic, Mr. Bulj, Mr. Maras and Mr. Pernar, whom I didn't see here, and the three of them I saw lost the right to speak because of these restrictions could not be in the hall. I think it's a disproportionate sanction and that in the future, if we stay here, it should be corrected just like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197020	Here's a thank you in the future we'll correct that. Here's my colleague Ostojić, final. I'm going to ask professional services to inform agents who are outside who have no other way of informing. Thank you. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197021	And here's exactly what we're going to do to show that constructiveness again is to adapt to these opportunities. We haven't talked about the replica for no reason because it wasn't even a deal, and I'm going to repeat it again, the deal can't be an excuse to derrogate and move the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So please make sure you change that. As for the areas of too many areas and everything else, 10 days ago there was a debate here and I was speaking on behalf of the club and I was just saying that the question of a pass is not a good solution that they need too many borders, and I even suggested what here today I hope they will hear the headquarters, which is the territory of the former municipalities would be a logical solution and would not happen these absurds, which is that people in 6 local self-government units have to ask permission to go to a gas station to get back to a place where they normally have a place of residence. Also in the closing word, everything is intended to help constructively and I hope that they will listen to these very messages, then there was a sentence, and that is to use the experience of Lovran Municipality that took a small company from Bakar that then solved the issue of electronic passes, before that we had a rush on the counters. So it's good that they heard this part get rid of electronically, but I think it's important that the variant of the pass be resolved in a better way because this way we're going to have the extremely lost resources that we really need and we need to save them at this point, first of all I'm talking about people, cops who work and who control that state. As for covering up the real situation, don't view it as something incorrect. I think it's important that the real situation is for us, and especially since we haven't been through one crisis together, regardless of political considerations, we do our best when we know what the situation is. You don't need to embellish the picture, you don't need to lead it to a situation to say it's better than what's true next, and that's so we can react correctly, I think we have to accept ourselves this way. Criticism doesn't necessarily mean criticism, criticism can be well-intentioned, I hope we understand that, and therefore it was my sentence, unity, yes, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, when we are faced with the situation that many of the things that in our lives are doing more today cannot exist, when the situation is that regular health care cannot work, when our citizens and citizens are threatened, we expect to adopt in this Assembly the right measures that can really help. And I want to point out, the measures are not only repressive, the protection of citizens is among other things and the protection of their human rights. It's something that's important, the moment when, I agree with my colleague Sanader who said democracy has no alternative, we must not endanger it in any way, and I think it's very important to send a message here and here as a message, and be sure that you will have neither our support but should protect democracy above all, so that we can go back to normal life after this extraordinary state that we have at this moment. Therefore, any observations to be sent are the goal, the aim is to help and make a better solution, and there is no need to worry. And as for the citizens, we must protect them all together primarily here from this House, and by measures that don't go to heart, I will repeat human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197022	Thank you. Comrade Sanader final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197023	Clearly, I absolutely agree with the fact that democracy has no alternative, the protection of human rights has no alternative only we must first have people to protect their rights. If we don't have people, then we won't have to protect whose rights, so this is health protection, health protection is in first place right now. If we don't protect people's health, if we don't protect these people, then we won't be able to have their rights. So democracy has no alternative and human rights protection has no alternative. We can discuss some measures, if we estimate that some measures are not good then this place where we can discuss it, but we have to understand and we understand because our citizens show themselves daily by their behavior that they understand the danger, that they understand the situation we are in, that they realize that all the measures that are taken are primarily for the sake of people's health because it has no alternative. Only a healthy nation can have a future. And all that we see to potentially endanger democracy, but also human rights, then we need to talk about it publicly. But we can't take every measure if the meaning and all the most relevant experts in the world who spoke about the coronary virus about the epidemic said it was the most problematic social contact. Both the Staff and the Government and this Parliament have the responsibility to do their utmost to avoid this social contact, that it is as small as possible, to come down to the most needed measure. Again, when it comes to health, we can't say that it may have been justified if someone received a certificate for a specialist or a doctor in a hospital and then we won't let him in because of the other municipality, it was a cartoon. But we cannot, under the protection of human rights, endanger the health of our neighbours, our fellow citizens, that is where we must find the difference. I know and the greatest danger would be to compromise human rights in any way. We lived, we older bar here there are plenty of older ones living in a non-democratic system, and we know what it's like and don't God ever let it happen again. No party, no party, no government to question the threat of democracy and human rights, but we must bear in mind that we are currently in a serious epidemic situation, that serious measures must be taken, to see what is happening in our neighborhood. Some who have easily accepted what is happening have released the epidemic, today we see military trucks driving corpses. And the meaning and desire and the goal of all measures and the work of the Government and the work of the Staff and the work of this Parliament to preserve human lives. Here in this sense we have to be unique and we have to look for the best solutions and then there's no division in that business because that's the only thing that can get us to do good, that's the only reason why we're here and why people chose us. I appeal to everyone, and your behavior confirms that you understand that, and that we are all going to win this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197024	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197025	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I thank you all for your constructive discussion and your suggestions. But let me say a few words that would explain certain misunderstandings or questions that are not necessarily related to these four laws alone, but it concerns issues that she normally solves in nature. Here is the introduction of how many documents were issued last year, I will only briefly repeat, it was issued in police administrations and stations of 565,000 ID cards, 385,000 driver's licenses and 125,000 passports. So almost into the hair of a million issued documents in our police departments and stations. It is said here that for most of these documents it is necessary to come twice despite the possibilities given in recent years that for some of these documents such as the passport, such as the driver's license to submit the request by electronic means, therefore it is not to come then twice. It is also possible to change the residence by electronic means and to result in some kind of agreement, such as the consent of the landlord to apply for residence or residence, such as the consent of one parent to report a child to another parent or to give him a ID card or passport, but still, despite government efforts and resolutional ministries, the MUP, the Ministry of Administration, the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society, such requests are still subject to a smaller number of citizens by electronic means. So, despite this, in 99 police stations and 20 police administrations, so in 119 places, a million of these documents have been issued, which means in nature almost 2 million arrivals in the past year, so it's approximately all other years, and therefore these laws suggest that these documents, of which three basic documents with images that benefit us in different legal situations, will still be valid. It's not the intention that was said here, I think Mr. Sagar said, that it is here that prevents citizens from paying the fine. No, the main intention is trust in legal traffic, so the continuation of legal traffic that enables normal communication of citizens, economies that even at this time of difficult situations certain sectors, segments of society operate, to function and enable us to cope with this crisis period more easily. Of course these documents if only the Republic of Croatia recognises them will not be able to fulfill their purpose. They have already been prepared and as soon as Parliament, hopefully, votes these four amendments to the law, will go through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, diplomatic notes will be sent through our diplomatic consular representations to all countries to accept these extended documents and therefore the fact that our citizens cannot, as well as citizens of almost all other countries, replace this document in some regular, until now ordinary procedure. So also these situations of a necessary journey during this epidemic, our drivers doing a significant job supplying goods from other countries and from our producers driving them to other countries, so that they can function normally during this period. The issue of residence and residence has also been touched, and we have also considered changes to this law, you know that by decision of the Civil Protection Staff is not a possible change, it is not possible to travel except in justified cases between different places and therefore we will consider the possibility of an electronic change of residence when justified or when it also expires as these documents have expired. The residence annually, let's say the colloquial second residence reports about 140 persons and some of them, of course, in this period has expired or will expire and stay. We will consider this and, if necessary, correct that regulation. We think that these measures will bring about the possibility of legal traffic, the fluctuations of citizens to the most necessary extent that is now possible and permitted, and thus I believe that this issue and the e-prompt will be easier and more adequately solved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197026	Thank you. Please stay because we have three replicas. He is the first colleague of Ostojić, after him a colleague of Zhagar and then a colleague of Bauk. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197027	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I didn't understand whether a citizen could change his residence or not, or if it was exclusively downloaded for e-Citizens? I'm asking you this because you mentioned the decision of the Chief of Staff, there can't be a single headquarters that's the example that I'm telling you about to abolish existing legal provisions, so that's not supposed to happen. That's an example. Here I am constructively telling you that this cannot be allowed in Croatia, so you cannot lift someone's right to change their residence by decision of the Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197028	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197029	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. At this point, it is not possible to change the residence or residence because, of course, the decisions of the Staff on the restriction of movement could be disabling. However, we will work to enable, in justified cases, these changes that would not go in order to disabling the Staff's decisions on the restriction of movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197030	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197031	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. You'll have support for these measures. The general public's view is that the Staff has done a good job for the simple reason why key issues have been left to the profession instead of politicians, key issues to the profession, and that is the general public's view. And today I mentioned the Central State Office for Digital Society and there I said that most of us don't even know what he's doing, but it's not their fault. And in that case, if we leave it to the profession, there's a lot of professional people sitting in that office to let them do their job, then they probably wouldn't even have these problems today because they'd probably live up to a lot of e-documents. And finally to conclude, regardless of how the Staff has come to these powers, which is being warned by counterpart Ostojic, he is doing a good job. However, what we must think at no time can any headquarters abolish the democratic standards of society, i.e. Put the laws below your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197032	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197033	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The government's intention to enable and encourage Croatian citizens and other foreigners who are legally staying to use electronic services and who are opening up more and more every day, therefore it is increasingly possible to request a particular document by electronic means or to give some consent as I said earlier. Staff decisions here cannot comment, but I can say that, of course, the aim of all state authorities is to facilitate these decisions of headquarters, to operate and to make it easier for society to live by these decisions which, of course, are not always easy for a number of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197034	And the last replica of your exposure to colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197035	Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you correct your statement a little bit because you just said that the headquarters has put the residence law out of force. It's usually called a coup in democratic countries, so correct it a little bit, find a better formulation. But the intensity to change the residence is not correct because in this case it would only be about changes in residence that would actually aim to bring the situation in line with what would then be written in the residence. So if someone who now has a residence in Varazdin, and now located in Virovitica changed their residence on Virovitica, there would be nothing intensifier about banning movement, however, it would be better because he from Virovitica could no longer go anywhere. So the intensity that the residence does not violate the headquarters measure does not make sense, so it does not seem logical. Someone would just put a place where he was and then he wouldn't be able to leave it by the same valid decisions of headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197036	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197037	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Any citizen may otherwise change his residence within 15 days to report it to the police office or station. We can't know whether or not someone in the last 15 days before the adoption of these measures changed residence, but you are calling for us to recognise the illegal situation from before, because we know that there are always a number of people who either from a coma or from some expectations or interest don't report their residence and residence as they should under the law. So for them, we can't change the rules now so that people like that can amnesty out of responsibility. But the longer these measures last, of course they will seek appropriate answers through laws and other regulations, the more we cannot cement. I don't remember saying that the headquarters put out the law, I don't think I said it, but if I used a similar expression that referred you to it, I'm sorry I didn't intend to say it, and I certainly didn't say put it out of force. I'm a lawyer and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197038	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, the Law on IDs, the Law on Road Safety and the Law on the acquisition and possession of arms to citizens at 13:33 p.m., and we will vote when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197039	The following statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the ID card. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr Katic is, so only this amendment is about, Mr Katic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197040	Two amendments have been submitted on the identity card. The first amendment, which also nomotechnically...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197041	Yes, there are two amendments, I'm sorry there are two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197042	...nomotechnically edits the sentence. Namely, the date until the documents are valid, i.e. until, within 30 days of the date of the end of the epidemic and the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197043	And the second amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197044	For the same reasons, the expression of the norm is also being added, and it is clearer. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197045	Well, then we can conclude a debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the I.D. Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197046	Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on ID, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 900. Proposer of the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the amendment was accepted. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the ID card. Who's against it? Who's restrained? There are more abstentions, so please count, raise your hands just to be seen. And who's in? I find that most of the votes have been passed the Law supplementing the I.D. Act, and the result is 15 abstentions and 115 votes for, thank you. We are now starting with the first united debate, these are 4 laws: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Safety of Croatian Citizens, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Personal IDs, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Traffic Safety and - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of Arms of Citizens All are an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. From 899 to 902. The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Prior to the proposing representative, it will be the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, respected Davor Bozinovic, a colleague of Bernardic, who asked for a break. You can go there anyway, however you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197048	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament today is on the agenda of the bill on the extension of travel documents and I am therefore looking for a break today, simply because we need to understand that at this moment there are people to be provided with, to extend security in this period. And that is why we are asking that our proposal of the Moratorium Act be discussed tomorrow morning, together with this debate on amendments, and that tomorrow at 12 o'clock, this law be put to the vote in the Croatian Parliament. The contribution to this thesis is that this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197049	A colleague of Bernardić, a colleague of Benardić, just a little please. So, you can ask for a break on the agenda points. You're not asking this, you're asking that one other item of the agenda be discussed before it's scheduled. So now you're not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197050	Okay, I said if you extend the IDs, then the travel documents need to extend the security to the citizens that they don't have to fear paying off the loan. In particular, because the law was supported, it was supported by part of the ruling coalition's representatives on the Finance Committee. Therefore, at this point, the Finance Committee has adopted the Moratorium Bill's proposal for loans to citizens and entrepreneurs for a year, I suggest that you put it on the agenda tomorrow and vote on the moratorium tomorrow at 12 o'clock in order to provide security for people in Croatia. Citizens to continue their normal lives and entrepreneurs to continue their normal business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197051	Well, you used your request for a break in a way that I find unfair, but that's your decision. A colleague of Glasnović, you're reporting for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197052	Thank you. I'm asking for a break to discuss these two laws, a consultation from this club's party regarding IDs, IDs. It is closely related to Croats outside the country and there is also Mr. MuP Minister we are still waiting for a new law on Croatians on citizenship, this has not been settled, we are long waiting, people are worrying about the problem, the issue of these documents takes months, years. The question is that the process will be simplified or the sabotage that started long ago will continue, we know how it went. A Croat would have to, for example. from Toronto in fact Vancouver in Toronto, 6 hours summer, then you would have to carry out the Croatian language test, now according to some new announcements will not be in the new law, then you would come to Petrinjska, then you would have to go to Chernomerac, etc. This bureaucracy she, it is intended sabotage, of course, if we talk about democracy, human rights, but it is taken from people outside, these people are citizens of this Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Some have come here, they've got double taxation, they've got left money, they've got houses, they can't come back fast enough to solve the problem of seized property, property-legal relations, and the question of when the law is bound, the new law on citizenship wants to speed it up so that these people get back, to break those blockades. We've got people out there, for example. which we need, for example. The Croatian-American society of professionals can contribute to this country, but if we talk about human rights as people outside see it. The right to vote has been taken away, they don't have it, they've taken away the right to private property and, of course, the blow we see from left-wing media on freedom of faith, they hit these churches. And that would be a short one, yes. We don't play Democrats here anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197053	Okay, the break will be approved. Here you go, buddy Bull. Also a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197054	Thank you very much. Here, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. The topic is extension, one of these is identity cards because the deadlines on the measures we have are difficult to achieve, and I think that's good. But here, too, when we talk about IDs, documents, we should talk about people living in certain areas, and they can't place their products on markets. Well, since the Minister and Head of the National Civil Protection Centre are here, I am not clear that foreign products are sold in trade chains from Italy, Spain, now their strawberries, Vrgorje strawberries will not be possible, fruit material will be able to be sold in markets, and why would we not be organised in markets and I don't understand why the markets are closed, and the trade chains work where foreign import products are? Imports destroyed us, people's safety, at this point, mostly farmers are the key to the whole story. We set Croatia up and allow agricultural products to be sold on open markets with all security measures. People are in huge trouble. Not milkmen, cheesers, people who sell vegetables, fruits, they can sell their products, and they're at risk of safety. At this point there is no higher priority than self-sufficiency because the wrong policies we have led so far have shown that Croatia is an unprocessed state, an unprocessed agricultural land. Instead of inviting you to buy your home in our markets, with all the security measures, volunteers will provide better than in the trade chains of the security measure. So once again, I support this proposal made by the Government But finally open the markets [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] to enable the sale of domestic products. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197055	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue to work at 11 o'clock exactly. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER MEETING Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I announced before the break, we are discussing four laws under the jurisdiction of the MUP. I'd like to remind you, given the agreement we have reached, the promoter will speak for 20 minutes, clubs for 10 minutes and individual debates will be five minutes. I would now ask that, on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation of the law that respected Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will not speak for 20 minutes, but I assume this will be a matter, so it is four laws, so on the additions of the Law on the ID card, on road safety, on the acquisition and possession of arms and the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The additions are proposed for the reason that citizens, in the light of the circumstances of the declared epidemic, come to the counters of police administrations and stations, and that, through the reduction of close contacts of protection and citizens, as well as officials who conduct administrative procedures. For example, in 2019 and police administrations and stations, 565,524 ID cards, 284,559 driving licences and such issuing procedures were issued, unless they were electronically indicating that citizens would come twice to the registers of administrative work, when applying and for the purpose of taking over the documents made. The additions to the ID law are therefore proposed to allow citizens in the situation resulting from the Covid-19 disease epidemic to use an earlier issued identity card which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic and would allow them to take over issued identity cards within the same time limit. That I don't repeat the argument because it's the same for every law. The same would apply, therefore, to the Road Safety Act, which would have been considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic, thus allowing citizens and for certain actions to be carried out within a specified period of time, such as the check-out of a vehicle which will not be used temporarily or permanently, the acquisition of a manufactured licence, the conduct of a surveillance check and the second, may also take place for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. As regards the addition of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons, it would allow owners to use previously issued arms sheets which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the date of termination of the epidemic as well as the actions required by the prescribed law, such as the submission of a request for the issue of an armed list for weapons purchased, the delivery of assurances of medical ability or documents to have technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons, the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and the like. Finally, by supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, it is proposed to allow citizens during the duration of the epidemic to use a passport which expired for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic primarily to return to Croatia's Croatian citizens whose passport expires during the duration of the epidemic and is abroad. Here, I think it's pretty clear and I wouldn't, of course, unless there were questions that went further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197058	We have 8 replicas because 3 MPs have signed up from the SDP Club, which can be maximum 2, so please just tell each other who won't replicate because you contacted your colleague Vidović, Ostojić and Maras. You will not, well, but you will not, colleague Ostojić. Then let's take it in a row. First mate, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197059	Ministers are clear about these measures in order to reduce our citizens' physical contact in making certain documents that have expired. But I've pointed you out to one I can't tell, let's say now we have these measures that people are from their places where they can't access without this pass to other places. It's illogical, for example. that places like my Sinj, the former Sinj municipality has 6 local self-governments and, of course, it is illogical that some smaller municipalities do not have the possibility of banks, or ATMs, the elderly cannot come to that area, so whether these measures can be taken which would be healthy to expand to former agglomerations i.e. The former kind of way that these municipalities and cities are connected, it's a simple center, for example. The son is all in Sinj, so that they would facilitate communication, and the measure would abide. That's very important. And another question that I asked you briefly, what about markets and domestic products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197060	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197061	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, first of all, when we talk about passes, you know everything we do these days is about implementing epidemiological measures that need to help us to prevent the infection in Croatia from reaching exponential growth and, according to everything we see, at least in the last few days, we keep the situation under control, so the growth in Croatia is linear, it is not exponential to make it clearer. The most famous scientists in this area have warned very early, and we read very early about it and thought about it and made decisions about it, which means that if you're a week late with some decision, that the number of infected and then, associated with it, and the number that... What? Yeah, I'm sorry. [[President: Time is only running out, you finish, you have a minute.]] Okay. So we created one system that we now have, this morning there were about 520 thousand e-passes issued, so that's, we're about approaching that optimal number which then allows us all of this, as you know, from the idea to the realization. It took a few days. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197062	Comrade, just a minute, Minister, I beg you, let's hold on for a minute. Now I let go and in the next answers, I still get Look at it [[Okay, here I really didn't take care of it.]] You got it. [[I wanted to explain, but good.]] Next. [[Agreement: Markets are on the way today to talk to everything... What?]] Next. No, wait, wait a minute. Some now encourage to answer, others earn that time is up. No one threw, here, ask a colleague, Zekanovic. ... Yes, yes, e.... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't all have two minutes, we'll all have one minute, so please, Minister, then answer this question in the other. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197063	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in your public appearances, you often thank people who are on the front lines of the fight against the virus. Among them are cheerleader groups even though you never mention them but talk about young people, therefore. Just to clarify to the Croatian public, so right now in Zagreb fans' groups are engaged in 3 areas, they deliver food and medicine to older people and self-insulation people. They're on duty in the soup kitchens, doing order, social distance, and moving things to people who've suffered an earthquake. So in the context of what they are currently doing, can you explain to the Croatian public whether you will continue to insist on the Fans Act, which is being punished from 15 to 30 thousand kunas for 0.5 promills and people who violate the self-insulation of 8 thousand kunas. I mean, that's deeply unfair, so answer the Croatian public that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197064	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197065	I, the esteemed Mr. Representative, would take advantage of this occasion and thank everyone, including members of the fan groups who at this time volunteer and show solidarity with those members of society who are either part of the most vulnerable groups or simply cannot meet all those needs, primarily related to the procurement that, as we ourselves know, is limited. So, once again, I thank you all, and for the peacetime topics when the epidemic passes. As far as we're concerned, did we get into the red?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197066	No, he can't. Now let's go to Question 3, Replica, colleague Vidovic, here you go. Don't confuse my colleague Bulj with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197067	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I'm only interested in a brief and clear question. Was the government meeting really held on January 9th, as counterpart Bacic claimed the other day in connection with the coronary virus. And secondly, how is it possible, if the meeting was held that these measures had not been effective 15 or 20 days ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197068	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The Croatian government, prime minister, its associates were likely among the first to detect that something was happening in China and should be monitored. However, even then, and also today, and then especially there were still too many unknowns to talk about whether this virus would come to Europe, as it would spread, there was not enough information. However, the fact is that we were also talked about and that this epidemic did not surprise us in relation to some other countries, including us neighbouring countries, because that's how it tells us that we have linear growth, and some much larger and more developed countries with which we have watched what they're doing have lost control of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197069	Thank you. We're going to a colleague named Bilek now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197070	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that for every commendation and these four laws that are on our agenda today that we really respect all that the Civil Protection Staff and its recommendations, all that he proposes, on this side here we thank you and everyone in the Staff for the dedicated work and for the measures that have been introduced. I think we should thank everyone, including the meaning of honey. sisters, by doctors, doctors, drivers and all others, but of course, we should not forget all our other citizens, all the people who work in the building, but primarily our farmers who should worry about the self-sufficiency of our products, so on the other hand, here, I complement that question from my colleague, and the related market, you announced yesterday that you could go in a certain direction to sell products on the market under certain restrictions, so please here's the answer, when, when you can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197071	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197072	So, like when closed parts of the market opened, we included local civil protection headquarters, just as we are talking, meetings with video conferences with all headquarters and associations of cities and associations of municipalities are taking place, and it is that they know about the conditions, especially the epidemiological conditions, so a limited area, a number of people who can at one time be, a distance between sales places and the moment we get feedback like when it was in the first case with closed parts of the markets when we get confirmed information from local headquarters that all decision-making measures are being taken will be released and will be published. I expect it can probably be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197073	We're going to a fellow Panenic now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197074	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, as Minister of the Interior, I am primarily asking you, it is also related to this law that you are primarily trying to protect the population from unnecessary contacts and we welcome that. But I'm going to ask whether they're protecting themselves enough, and the cops who are in touch, they stop us every day, and they're implementing these measures that are now limiting movement, and they're in contact with a number of people. We have seen that there have also been references to the amount of equipment, enough equipment, so I ask you directly whether all police officers and officials working with citizens have sufficient means of protection, whether they have seen enough quality that the first line of defense they come to and when they come from abroad, it is the police who are receiving them that is very important that the police are protected at the highest possible level. Is that how it is in Croatia right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197075	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197076	I thank you first and foremost for showing concern for police officers and officials who are among the most vulnerable activities in this crisis. They all have protective equipment and no police officer in particular who is in contact with citizens who do not have protective equipment. What is also the fact that protective equipment is at this point the most powerful issue in the world, but we have, through and through contacts and purchases primarily large amounts of this type of protective equipment because it is not the same of course for medical staff in intensive hospitals and others, assured that Croatian police officers including other emergency services have protective equipment, and this change of e-passage which is actually checked for mobile phone contact, or close to reading the QR code is actually a contribution to reducing unnecessary physical contact or touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197077	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197078	Dear Ministers, I will first conclude that Croatia had one great fortune that it was not a European country that first experienced a coronary infection with the virus. If we were in Italy, we'd probably have an Italian script. You said a few weeks ago that they were weeks ago, that one week was very important to infect flame or suppression, so I was wondering why you didn't leave a week earlier to this extent when you saw what was going on in Italy? Is the reason you might have had the HDZ election so it didn't start with the measures because you said yourself that one week was important, so we could have been much better, if you said so well. And the second question is, did you give up on that crazy intent to track your cell phone means to Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197079	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197080	As far as these findings are concerned, we know more about this epidemic every day than we knew before. I will remind you that in 19.3. without debate, the Assembly has voted to amend the Civil Protection Act, which has given the National and Civil Protection Staff the authority to take measures on the basis of the instructions of the profession, which should then be ensured at lower levels, given that the Civil Protection Organisation and under the Constitution are in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-governments. As for the other, it's not a question from the M.O.P.'s portfolio what's important, it's that we Of course, we are thinking about all the possibilities to reduce the spread of the infection, what is the solution to this issue, and what it will look like I can't tell you at this point because it's not an internal affairs portfolio, and I think how things are developing now convinces us that in fact these methods that have already been applied and that from some other times can produce results. [[Thank you, finish your sentence.]] Of course everything will depend about how the epidemic situation will develop. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197081	Here you go, fellow Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197082	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as you know, Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake a little less than 2 weeks ago, which has further made the situation worse in the City of Zagreb related to this unfortunately crisis that we have. You said yourself that we have changed the Civil Protection Act, I can tell you that in the City of Zagreb things don't work, that people are waiting very much for the most basic things and what I would like to ask you here is to pay attention to security in the City of Zagreb, especially because a lot of people have come out of their properties and apartments and ask you to strengthen the security of the city center so that police surveillance can be greater over these properties, to ensure the properties of our citizens and on the other hand to ensure all the dangerous places from the passage because there is still a lot of construction material that can fall from these buildings. What I think, that unfortunately late in the City of Zagreb is all that insurance or reparation and insurance of these facilities, so please to secure it as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] On the other hand, I thank firemen who have been working tirelessly for 2 weeks from all over Croatia and help our citizens to bring about the purpose of certain facilities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197083	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197084	Here, I can only say what I publicly said yesterday about data on crime in the Republic of Croatia, it is in decline, probably because of all these measures of restrictions on movement and now we don't have time to analyze. As for the safety of the facilities in Zagreb, police, along with other services, immediately went out on the ground and thank God for the subsequent incidents of this kind, were not, except for the unfortunate case of the firefighter who died and, of course, the first case of the girl who died during the earthquake, so all available police forces provide not only the centre of Zagreb, but the reinforced centre of Zagreb and I really have no information at this point about having any major movement of the robbery, but I understood your message. And be assured that the police and that part of the work will be done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197085	Comrade Vlaović, you are the last to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197086	Thank you. Dear Minister, I welcome this decision to extend the deadline for extending documents to citizens not to put pressure on police administrations, but our proposal is to extend it to 60 days because I think 30 days is too short. And secondly related to the holders or holders of the licenses to carry and hold arms and hunters, as of April 1st is the new hunting season, so here's the question in which hunters can go to the hunting grounds, feed the game, worry about no poaching, prevent the spread of infectious diseases, and I think it would be good and send this message to our hunters to monitor and protect their health, but of course they also have to worry about their hunting ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197087	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197088	Thank you, very briefly, Mr. MP, this decision has been extended 30 days since the end of the epidemic was declared, so not from today or from the moment of adoption of the law, but when the Minister of Health declared the end of the epidemic since then this count is 30 days. I'd like it to be, as soon as possible, but at this point no one knows when that day is, when he'll declare the end of the epidemic. It will depend, of course, on the development of the situation. As far as hunting is concerned, we have had some enquiries, however, I must say, the epidemiological profession at this point is that hunting is not desirable because it poses an epidemiological risk, especially since hunting in Croatia, and not only in Croatia is not only hunting but it includes a series of activities before and after hunting where it would be difficult to maintain a favourable epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197089	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. No more replicas so you can go to your place. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197090	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, now, of course, in our debates, we will start from the content itself, so perhaps here is the Minister of what he hears, and what is not sure to be passed on to him, we will be the issue of the scope of the changes that have been made. Here we looked at, of course, the possibility of a delay, we'll welcome, I believe we'll all say it's reasonable, but in the extent that we've been looking for, there were possibilities of solidarity with the whole, the whole situation where we're in, where it's said, it's going to cut everything that's possible. So I'm going to ask you a question, did the proposals of these laws cut everything that could? We also have the price of issuing documents that have been in place since 2014, '15. years, so here, correct me if I'm wrong, that's when they're determined. Now, is there room to do something about this? Whether the debate at the time was for identity cards when they were introduced with an electronic chip, so 79 and a half kuna was the subject of debate, I didn't see what it was to calculate, which is the price of making the document itself, and finally whether there is now a space where something could be done and that, at least for a time in this area, we say here, we release the citizens of one part of the obligation at the moment when it's the hardest for them. I'm going to ask each other another question about IDs, and that's an opportunity to deliver something, as well as passports. So it stands out this way that the fee of 30 kuna is for the delivery of the passport to the address of the residence or residence in the event of a request by a citizen. Does it really cost 30 kuna, given the quantity it's certain that the MUP can organize a much more favourable delivery. If the online sales chain organizes for significantly less amounts and I believe that there might be space here because here we had some time ago an amendment to the laws where the funds for, collected funds for making cards for agricultural producers which they prove to be qualified to handle pesticides that charge 30 kuna suddenly become free funds. The government has proposed an amendment allowing these funds to be spent on other purposes. If a farmer pays that card 30 kuna for its production and then remains an surplus of funds then I ask you how much it costs to make a card, it's the real cost of costing. Is someone, is someone actually going to have a little earring, and then ask a similar question for this delivery, at which price, here I will say an example of Croatian post office can deliver a card. If we're saying everything now, so here's the government brought it to work the Internet portal for the sale of products, so let's go, digitize ourselves as a society whether 30 kuna is appropriate or can be significantly lower. We think it can be significantly lower at the club. I also noticed a detail relating to the question of passports, which is that their validity is being extended. The only thing I haven't noticed in this proposal is how it's aligned with other countries, because the passport is a document that travels to a foreign country. What has been the practice so far was that when you come to the border and find that your document expired, they practically treated you as an attempt to enter the country illegally. Is it possible in any other country now with a passport that pointed out the date, which we will give this extension a new legitimacy, to enter any other country. Most countries, as well as the Republic of Croatia, and this also stands on the Ministry's pages, stipulates that the passport should be worth at least 3 months or some other period.../incomprehensible/... from the moment that it would end up in that country. For example. BiH wrote a foreigner who intends to exercise the right to stay in BiH temporarily must enter with a passport whose importance is at least 3 months longer than the period on which it intends to request the approval of a temporary stay. So, by extending the passport, do we achieve any goal and that's the key question. I understand when there is a humanitarian part of the return of our citizens to the Republic of Croatia, but there is also consular representations can react quickly, so if we have the opportunity to speed up the process which is particularly charged with the speedy issue of documents, of course for Croatian citizens it should provide it at a regular price in this time, because it would certainly be inappropriate if we want to return one of our citizens back to the Republic where he will meet both the measures of isolation and actually help all those who have found themselves in this situation that now issue documents is a priority and should not create perhaps conditions as they have been. In the matter of the Minister during his presentation, I have also also warned about the issue of masks, primarily those which are called protective masks not to be cottony because in the extent in which they as police officers work with citizens must have the highest quality equipment, and for such protective masks it is prescribed that the duration is practically within one day and that should be changed and it would really be large amounts so that the police do not happen to be in any form the virus transporter and because they did not have adequate equipment. We see that Austria has imposed an obligation as of April 1st that citizens, when entering the trade, even trade chains must offer them a free mask themselves, so these days it is introduced, so I would also say it is not just legal protection that needs to be carried out, but also protection in a way that protects their officers and officers precisely so that those who might be threatened to be further protected. Once again on this, this, this, the proposal of these laws, the club of the Independent List, the young will give support, but here we will ask the Ministry to consider, in further actions and precisely some of these arguments that we have cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197091	Thank you. We are going to another club of representatives, it is the club of representatives of GLAS and respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so 4 travel documents, ID and road safety laws on roads, other words of driver's license and armed papers, all situations in which documents are required and all 4 laws relate to the extension of the document during the duration of the epidemic plus 30 days after the end of the epidemic. One fusa here I have seen is now as we sit here an amendment has come, a proposal for an amendment of the HDZ Club that requires that a formulation of the declaration of the end of the epidemic, so not only the end of the epidemic, but officially, I think it's a good thing, that it should be introduced into all these laws. Therefore, it is necessary to formalise this situation not when it seems to have stopped or, rather, that it should indeed be a formulation of the official declaration of the end of the epidemic and to tie all these dates and all extensions to it. It is clear everywhere, all four laws clearly state the name of the epidemic which is therefore Covid-19, which is also important to know that all of this, all of this extension, should, therefore, be managed in all the restrictions that are introduced in principle, and will then be abolished, but be introduced specifically to this particular epidemic, not to any other monster, not to any other elemental accident, so that we know that this is strictly related to the emergency situation caused by this virus, that we are not coming into a situation that any of these things stick together and remains after this particular epidemic. The problem that counterpart Panenic has also pointed out is that these laws extend the duration of the importance of passports and ID cards, but only with them can you get out of the country, but cannot enter any country. I think it is particularly important for people living in border areas with neighbouring countries of BiH, Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro, as well as Slovenia, so people who have a need for any reason and thus organised life to have to cross the border. Now, one way to solve this is to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries or to send on the Croatian side an official note that our passports and ID cards are valid regardless of the same date, valid until the official declaration of the end of the epidemic. Because otherwise, it does not really benefit much from this extension except that when an epidemic passes, one can extend those documents without any difficulty. But at this point I think that there would be, therefore, two possible solutions, one is either to enable at least such situations in some way to extend these documents, I mean, first of all, to passports and ID cards, or to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries and EU countries, or to be notified by official note that our passports and identity cards with which to travel can be worth, therefore, that they are valid until the end of the epidemic. Here, that's our suggestion that this measure would have the effect that seems to be intensities in these laws and club GLAS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197093	Let's go to the third debate, SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please. You mean when you get to the end? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197094	Well, Mr. President, I thought a miracle was going to happen after several years, except for what he has introduced around the law and remains in this assembly, but apparently that this bad habit, which is not to defend those laws that he should and that the arguments continue. First of all, I'd like to say that in these laws, which clearly serve to throw dust in the eyes. Here we have heard from the people who have dealt with this and fellow Panenic said this document does absolutely nothing if it is not good. What's it worth to you to get out of the country if you can't get back into it. It can be partially updated through.../incomprehensible/... through systems, through applications and so forth, but it's not a good solution. I think it should actually point out how many of these laws serve only to pet our eyes, as we do service to our people and citizens, and they're actually completely pointless. As for the day of the end of the epidemic, I don't think it should be complicated, it began the moment he declared the Minister of Health and stopped the day he issued the same document. As for the suspensions that have been made here, okay, the validity of the driver's license, etc., but I think that much more importantly in accordance with the reasoning given, which is that the aim is to keep people away from gathering, to reduce social contacts and protect citizens, it is necessary to do the same thing that the Slovenians have done, and this is a question of suspending the obligation to carry out technical checks and prolonging the validity of traffic permits. It's a situation that we have at this point and I don't know what's more dangerous than having an unsightly vehicle that's probably technically right, but it's going to be technically right or gathering in the technical inspection stations of vehicles that threaten and those who come there for those checks, and also those who, of course, have to get out of the house even though they keep saying they stay home and those who work in such cells and have to do technical checks. Therefore, Article 256 in which this could be added without any problem now in the same way as it was resolved for the other documents. I think the damage would be less. I would also like to stress that this issue of border passes where we already see 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia has a pass. What kind of a citizen of the Republic of Croatia if you don't have a pass, it's really a shame. I think it's a situation that just shows how completely wrong it's been done. Because at the moment when you can't leave Komiža you can't go to Vis, and the Komiža pump station doesn't exist it just shows the paradox of how unable we are to make too many boundaries for certain areas. This isolated island, which is isolated by itself, we put them in a position to go to Vis, get a pass so that they can fill the fuel from Komiza ić to another municipality. When someone tells me about the border between Ružić and Drniš or a situation where a woman from the suburbs of Sinj who is 100 metres away is a self-server but is located in the Croats, she must go to Sinj to get a pass to go to that supermarket. When someone tells me it's all very expensive logic, I have to say that it's the worst threat of police officers who need to know that there are already more than 100 in self-insulation, that some are unfortunately with confirmed coronary virus, and Mr. Minister says they have protective equipment. Here, go upstairs, the officer at the entrance, at the entrance to this INA building, no gloves, no mask. I won't say the minister is lying, but go see for yourself. As for the territory I'm talking about, I think it's a complete waste of resources, and it's a complete waste of the situation and I say too many areas would have logic, half a million passes is red tape that leads us to endanger those who need to look at it all together. There's a system that can handle it, and I think it's kind of a paradox, which is that the responsibility actually lies with companies or local headquarters or state headquarters leads us to the fact that it's really going to be a shame if you don't have a pass and you can't walk around. I don't know what the objective of this measure is, but if you want to limit movement then it should be in exceptional situations and pass should be served. Today, I'm just asking you what it would look like in Zagreb, why we don't have boundaries around the neighborhoods, why you who don't live in Zagreb, think a little bit, that in Zagreb with this amount of people you have, the one who lives in Pestnica can't come to Jarun, that's a lot more citizens' concentration, etc. So I think you should think about seeing what I was talking about 10 days ago. Today we have laws on which this assembly is the most legislative body that discusses how much personal, passport, etc. will apply, which do not actually use anything, nor can you travel, nor do other countries receive you, but we do not talk about the right things. Because when someone says they won't train or intend to violate human rights, or train strictness, this is exactly strictness training. So is the law that speaks of cell phone control. Ineffective, unnecessary, and that's what we really need in this state that is extraordinary, no matter what is not declared. And should laws that restrict human rights or not be passed, this shows. Why we make these laws, and we don't have any laws to limit movement. So it's just a situation where it actually stimulates and violates self-insulation, solutions, it's strictly strict, so I'm going to call a few statements because I didn't of course start this with what should be common, thanks to everyone. Of course, thanks to all who do their job, I congratulate them on that, and I especially congratulate those who do this by sacrificing themselves without the equipment and without what they need for the job. I get the most hurt when I hear a sick mother has to fight in more health care institutions so her child can have care. It bothers me when the doctors are called five-coloners, when Mikulić, the chief state inspector from this building, introduces a new measure, regardless of what this assembly did not talk about, and this is psychiatric treatment for those who violate self-insulation. The uniform of the minister who listened to the advice, so he took the police tags off himself, just talking about it and left only civil protection is a good thing. I even thought he'd come in uniform here today, but that's not a good message, the minister isn't the one to wear a uniform, he should wear what he needs to protect, not parade at press conferences, not around. Because the conductor of the orchestra doesn't go to the performers, he stands on stage, conducts, and it's all expensive. This way when people start and they get into everything they're told, of course you have a problem. January 9th was supposed to be a meeting, we heard here today that we're the first state to understand what's going on in China. 26.2. Minister Beros said there is no panic that it is just a more difficult form of flu. In 18.3. we were in a situation where the real crisis started, and in 19.3. we changed the Civil Protection Act, and for those measures that are being taken, I have to mention here only under the law. No one is allowed to do this under the law. So when the police break up a mass gathering of two women, middle-aged women outside the Park Hotel, that's not what we want to see. Because much worse things were, so what follows after the party, after the party is of course usually having worse consequences than I party, but we've had before the party, we're up to 18. There was a free entry from the neighbouring state and it does, of course, election in HDZ. So all these parties that were happening were a much more difficult form of breaking something that would be the rules of what people today are complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197095	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197096	You said you'd warn me for the last two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197097	I warned you, you probably didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197098	I didn't hear you, I'm sorry, but I'll follow the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197099	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and two MPs will speak, respected counterpart of Grmoja, after which fellow Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197100	Thank you, Your Honor. All the topics that are proposed here and coming to the agenda are marked by this situation, an epidemic around the coronary virus, in fact it's the only topic that dominates the public, and here we all as advocates have the need here to present the problems that citizens are talking to us about. I've seen most MPs talk about the problem of e-passes and we now have a bizarre situation that they, what, 400,000 have already been issued. I wrote on Twitter three days ago that before the government will issue 4 million e-passes than admit that such a territorial structure is an unsustainable invention. So, we now have one situation where the ministry has to think about rounding up somehow a unit, it can, I saw that there was one proposal on the territory of police stations, maybe going in that direction at this moment, and when this crisis is over, I hope it ends as soon as possible, going in the direction of territorial reconstruction, one more rational, one more rational division of the country, means where we will no longer have 500 municipalities and cities, where the counties, hopefully, will not go into some regionalisation, because we know that it will never pass, never agree to be under Split, will never agree to be under Zadar, never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka and no regionalisation comes into consideration, but to strengthen municipalities and cities and to reduce their numbers. That's the path we need to go in, and I hope this crisis is a lesson for us. It means to everyone in the government that this situation is simply unsustainable. People are coming to us, here's me from my Neretva saying this is something to do, this is ridiculous, we have a country in other municipalities and cities, in Neretva we have big problems. After all, here are the people texting me, so what our government thinks our people in the villages know how to use the system of e-citizens, does our government think that we all in the villages have the Internet this simple we live here, we're all on cell phones, we think it's a common, normal way of living, but it lives differently in the country, that, that people know very well, the people who live there. Here, they're asking me to react in that sense. They also ask me to react in terms of not having every village and I talked about it in the assembly, this bank, and some people have protected accounts, don't use cards, go to the bank to raise money, I can't get to the banks, these are things that you in the ministry should think about and suggest such solutions. I think we're like an opposition, I won't be as strict as my colleague Ostojic, there'll be time to criticise, now it's time to offer a solution. And I ask the President of the Assembly here, from this place, please continue the session HS on Wednesday, the government did not propose the Moratory Act to perform, our citizens who have been executed, who are blocked deserve a peaceful Easter and let the government propose such a law, gave MOST such a law, gave also colleagues from the SDP, you do not have to accept ours, we will gladly vote for the government's law. And finally just one more measure, I think that's very good and it needs to be taken out of this place, it's a coronary supplement. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a supplement for all those who are on the first line of defence against the coronary virus, a minimum of £2,000 directly as long as these special circumstances last, our doctors, our nurses, our maids in other hospitals that work, and their salary is less than this minimum wage that you have proposed for those who do not work at all, for our police, for our border police, for our army, for all who are at this moment at risk of being infected, but who are exposed to terrible efforts. Please, here is the President of the Assembly to present it to the Prime Minister and please continue the session on Wednesday because the government has announced, but has not yet proposed the Moratorium Act to be applied. Our citizens deserve a peaceful Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197101	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197102	Strong and strong measures in these circumstances of the crown crisis should be taken urgently in this home. Models and ways are clear, and here's what colleagues and say, the opposition supported all legislative proposals and when they were also the first set of measures, here and now we are discussing that even these proposals are that as little physical contact as possible of our people with, in police stations due to lengthened certain documents, that they will be accepted, however, we should also talk about exhausting our officers who are due to territorial reconstruction, I note... Replica, I didn't get an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Territorial means cops are tired, our citizens can't do their jobs in units like that. From Sinj to the island or to the island, Dalmatian or Croats are mentioned, where there are no basics, people don't have banks there, they don't have gas stations and they don't have other things. I can't understand how much energy is being exhausted on our officers and through these passes we haven't essentially solved the problem, but we're exhausting Croatian police officers so that this crown supplement is urgently to be given to people, both in healthcare professionals and all those who are doing work, from Croatian soldiers, police officers, all those who are going to work these Easter holidays, exhausted, for 12 hours, that this supplement is an emergency and this is the measure that we're going to encourage these people to do, not only with praises, but also respected secretaries, I think you're going to pass this on to the Minister. At this time of crisis, it is very important to protect domestic production. I asked the minister, I speak for weeks, for days that import lobbys have torn apart domestic production. At this point, people are in problems that our farmers, who have dairy production, have to spill milk. We see, now they're coming in a bunch of vervain strawberries, so where are the people going to have 500 tons of strawberries now? Where's he going with the crucible material than in the markets? And I repeat here, dear secretary, I also told the minister that there is more security for people in open markets in domestic products than in the trade chains of security measures,... Chains where the import goods are, from Italy, pomidore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which will continue to continue and now import in this crisis to sell Italian pomidores, Spanish strawberries until our products can't be exported to those countries. So he's still doing the import lobby his job undercover. I ask that markets be opened immediately, and that's what the farmers are looking for. In addition to the measures prescribed, if there is not enough in the local self-government of municipal directors, volunteers will go. You've seen cheerleading groups are ready to volunteer to maintain space and that physical distance with all measures. So which is why you're jeopardizing your domestic production, instead of saying now, let's do the processing, divide the agricultural land, flood our fields, you're sending a completely opposite message, you're buying imported goods in the trade chains. Markets, who thought of it, I can't, I'm saying it on this side, that's what farmers say, our O.P.G.s, open up urgently, save what's left of the market. Quartov markets, under everything, of course under the measures they should be, and this way you'll destroy this peasant from the village what's left. Instead of encouraging people to weaponize their fields, ornaments and plant and encourage agricultural production, because these policies have led, in this crisis it is visible what you have done in Croatia all governments. That we don't have self-sufficiency. That's from... A hectare of raw agricultural land and at this point we have no choice but to open markets, but that's what farmers call me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who have wasteful material and those who deal with dairy production and those who have fruit, vegetables. Here, I mentioned Vrgorje strawberries, where are the people with 600 tons of strawberries from Vrgorec? Where are they going with them? And Spanish will be offered on, in trade chains that are more secure here than to be made in this place. Of course, there should be precise and, of course, the biggest savings would be the senselessness of the public administration, you see, i.e. Not the public administration, but the senselessness of the organisation of the Republic of Croatia, and now if we don't see that we need to shut down the county, that they're pointless, that not the biggest money for health and education went to them and that money was directed at them. Where health care is needed, believe me, there would be eyes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197103	We are now going to discuss the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Two MPs, first a colleague, Zekanovic, and then a colleague, Glasovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197104	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We all get a lot of messages, so do I. I just got word from a Mr. Tihomir Quiet from the Dalmatian Burn who's a chronic patient and should go to Split for treatment, but there's no pass. Because of the nature of the disease, I can't even get out, so he asks me how did the state remember to send me a letter to cancel my supplementary health insurance because I didn't pay, but I didn't get it in the mail, by mail to the house, means a pass to go to Split for treatment. The second question to Minister Bozinovic, here are the ministers and other members of the Civilian Staff who have the most modern masks they say are not to be worn, and on the other hand, here is a message from the medical staff who says they cannot carry out adequate checks because there is not enough protective medical equipment or masks or jumpsuits. Like what? cancer patients who are one of the most endangered are simply not treated these days because medical workers do not have enough protective equipment. Instead of obtaining additional protective equipment for medical staff and for all those dealing with this crown crisis, we are thinking here, or not us, but the MUP is thinking about how to track citizens in Croatia, about how to track phones, about QR codes, about the location of citizens, and then we actually hear that in a very short time as many as 440 thousand passes can be issued and cannot be electronically voted. So in voting, we have one criterion, and in issuing passes and controlling citizens, we have another criterion. When we talk about this, I have to point out a particular problem, and it is a technical review or an extension of the traffic licence if it can be without a ID card and passport for a month so that the same prolonging can be done with regard to technical examination or with a traffic licence. After all, people today use cars less, so there will be no adverse consequences if this is prolonged. When we talk about tracking this crisis interestingly, we always have reports from the same countries, we have reports from Italy, we have a report from France and Spain, here and now we have a report from the United States, but we don't have reports from India, for example, we don't talk about India, we don't talk about Malaysia, we don't talk about Indonesia, we don't talk about the Philippines, we don't talk about Brazil, we don't talk about Ecuador. So I list all the countries of the third world, those undeveloped countries or countries where a large part of the population lives in conditions that are not worthy of man at all live in straws. Is there a crown crisis there? Have these countries taken action? Is he dying there or maybe he's not dying? Here I would like to hear in the media, and we hear nothing about how this crisis manifests this epidemic in third-world countries. When we talk about bad examples, no one mentions Belgium, no one mentions Holland. And when we talk about good examples, no one mentions, for example. Hungary, which is twice our size, and there are far less sick than we are. So here we have some double criteria, I have a feeling that we have in the media only those worse examples from the environment of Italy, Spain, France, UK, and while those beautiful examples and countries where the epidemic is, I'm going to tell God thanks doesn't spread, I don't know what reason or not so much as. India, Indonesia, Malaysia, they don't remember, they don't remember. Why don't we talk about these countries because these states out of a billion people have only a few thousand people and I'm curious about what measures they're taking, maybe we can apply them? And lastly, I'm going to refer again to what the minister said that we were a week early with measures or delayed with measures would have been a disaster, if we were early, there wouldn't be any infected. Why aren't we early? Maybe there's a reason for the HDZ election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197105	Here you go, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197106	Dear colleagues, President of the Parliament. Here is Croatia 5th in a row by moving to the EU of its citizens, people go out. But the difference between Poland and Romania they integrated their people into the legal economic order, it does not exist in Croatia. Israel has a return law and it's about these documents here. In 1922, there were 2% of Jews in the Palestinian administration under British rule, today there are 6.5 million. What about outside Croatia? What about the new Citizenship Act? We've been waiting here for, what, 30 years for these people to come back. Some want to go back. What about the third generation that almost forgets Croatian? It seems to me that we have become like Australians and Canadians and other Commonwealth countries who, by the age of fifty and sixty, have sought only white emigration. They wouldn't let the Chinese and the people of Africa, the Caribbean, so today the Croats are out of their homeland no matter what they say to me. This can be easily proven by these procedures, bureaucratic procedures. This bureaucracy generates corruption and we have missed the petty bureaucrats to guide our strategy on the return of Croats outside of the year. Let's say, three years for citizenship, travel administrations, etc. 270 days on average for permits. Bulgaria is ahead of us on that point. Is there even some kind of long-term strategy to bring our people back from the outside? Here are the people who started the International Court in Switzerland, who launched an action to curtail a law there to return money to those who were occupiers here until the integration of Eastern Slavonia. If they had put so much effort into returning Croats outside the country where we would be today. Syrian refugees have greater rights in Canada. Some changed ethnicity 12 times, and they got IDs. A Croat outside the country, I said six hours ago, he can neither vote, he can vote formally, there are hundreds of thousands of people registered as voters, it's his right to be taken away. He's been deprived of the right to return to take care of his grandfather, and we're still talking about democracy here. Do we even need the skills of these people? Of course it took capital when the crowd was. There were billions and billions of dollars coming here for weapons, I will mention only one small action called "The Movement for Life" that was before the war, where the Croats from Toronto sent millions of dollars for children without parents and they continued and after, during the war for orphans Croatian here. What about the SOA, the SOA found out that 40 members worked in our service against the Croatian people until '95, did they have IDs? Do they? Do the associates of the former Secret Service who worked against their people have any IDs? Yeah, they sure do. The EU's response to the crisis was mentioned by Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission President Marshall's plan, so we have half a million Croats in Germany alone, and this is our Marshall plan. How much money comes out here? What would happen to the pension system if it wasn't for those people and other systems here? But no, we ignored them, we waited another year for citizenship and we played Democrats and this cosmopolitan here. We remember the U.N. Department of Assistance and Reconstruction, '47. The year came in that "South" 416 million dollars, which today is worth 14 times more and it saved Yugoslavia from hunger. These saved us in the war of hunger, our citizens out of country, and they can't, they can't go back. What now? Here, there are some questions we don't have an answer for, I'm the answer to those IDs. The world is ruled by birth dysphoria, these certificates are changed, birth certificates. Some now plead as men and women, it's no longer a joke but a reality. These birth certificates are being changed, they want to come here in Croatia, even though we're already giving people a credit card, we want to put these cards on people who worked against.../incomprehensible/... for in the former system their code names? Some of them are sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197107	It is now the turn of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197108	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. This package of four laws should be welcomed anyway. Any move to protect our citizens from any unnecessary exposure to COVID 19 should be welcomed. But I think we should ask ourselves today as we pass this law, why, why we haven't so far been better informed and electronic teamed up and why it's even necessary to pass these laws in the 21st century, why it's not possible that all these necessary documents can't be completely removed, i.e. Run the process of extracting these documents via the Internet, via the portal e-Citizens, and why, I think, have we brought ourselves into this situation that at this time simply with a few mouse clicks we can't simply order these documents to get us home? In fact, here, the debate crystallized that actually passports and IDs would, I mean, ID cards would actually be for internal use. Why is it that such passports, unless they send notes with these countries, at least the EU, I think we will find it very difficult to cross the borders. But from what I understand, these standards are about travel documents, that this easier, return of Croats from abroad to Croatia. What I'd like to say again is that I think we should work on making that contact between citizens and, let's say, bureaucracy, that is. means the M.O.P. departments that issue such documents and, in future, reduce it because we know how much it is actually, how difficult it is when a man has to take out new documents, if he has to take out, I don't know, his ID or passport or any of those documents, he can count on it for at least one day that he'll have to spend just on standing in order and so I think this is a good opportunity for us to simply send that kind of, that way of doing these jobs to the art of history. When this set of laws was passed, I'm only sorry that it might not have thought about bringing immediate changes to the residence law in this situation. In fact, there is an institute of residence in the Housing Act, which means a shorter establishment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in places means that they do not have a permanent residence, but they have a place to stay, and it is up to the Institute to actually depend on the use of some sort of material rights that are linked to the units of local self-government. Some, once, mean that, the Institute's place of residence must be restored, so the application of the residence must be renewed every year, i.e. every year. After a year has passed. I think that once certain the number of our citizens will run out of residence, they will no longer be able to extend it, and the question is, what problems will all be faced with. In addition to these material rights that are potentially created at the level of local self-government, there may be problems if a stricter, more epidemiological measure is introduced, and let's say that they are not allowed to leave their home, no one should leave their home, then the question of where these people will go, where they will be, because then they will remain only the home address, and that residence address may no longer be returned for objective reasons. So, I think it's a very serious problem, and here's what I'm proposing to the ministry to look at it and look at the fact that it's a legal matter, and I don't think it's just a decision of the ministry to derrogate or prolong it, and I think it's going to have to be the same law here. I'd like to say, since I'm already here, they've touched here and everyone's been talking about the problem means e-pass. I also agree that this may be such a strict restriction on the individual units of local self-government in these circumstances where we have so many units of local self-government that some of them are so small that they don't have all the necessary, complete infrastructure for life where people simply have to go from one municipality to another, if anything else pours gasoline. I think you should think about finding a new, different territorial coverage that doesn't necessarily have to, or, I don't know, be in line with some previous or existing territorial structure, you can simply, I don't know, pull the border on, say, police administrations or, why not, the whole county. As far as I'm concerned, and maybe I'm wrong to understand that the problem was intrastate migration in terms of large-town migration towards smaller environments when it started talking about isolation and that it was burdening local self-government and that it was creating a certain fear of what would happen if some disease of such individuals temporarily came to their homes for rest, but this situation where people are simply distracted by their everyday life activities, I don't think it's what was meant to achieve with such measures. And I would also like to touch what many colleagues today spoke about the markets. I don't see why the market is more of an epidemiological threat than any major store, any chain of commerce, I don't know as much as any of you have recently been in one of the major sales chains in the store, and outside you're waiting for some time in order, this line that's being created outside the store, sometimes people stick to the prescribed space, sometimes not, once you get inside, so it's kind of an impression that people don't fully respect that 2m gap, possibly when you're waiting on the register, you're driving the slalom between other people and they're all trying to get away with each other, but with more or less success, and there's still a closed space. If the markets were to get better, we're talking about open-air sales here, so there's still a slightly smaller possibility of transmission and in some slightly better-controlled circumstances I think it might work, and it's not a waste and the fact that the closure of the market is going to cause us a lot of suffering from the OPGs and our domestic farmers. There, the HNS Club will certainly support these four laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197109	We are now going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the two representatives will also speak, the first colleague is Žagar, after him, a colleague of Orepic, and you will have a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197110	Thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We mostly work in the Republic of Croatia, our systems operate the truth is many times we don't know how actually. Our health system, which has endured the greatest burden and has largely proved to be quite successful in the struggle with a vicious epidemic in the sense that we do not have the exponential growth of this disease, so this system has been created long ago, with all its flaws it has managed to maintain this level of health care in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? We have a central office for digital society. Many of us and MPs today even though we had some reports at plenary sessions in HS, we don't really know what this office is doing and what it has done besides digitising existing documents. And everything that we haven't done so far is now going to be charged, so I'm not surprised by this package of laws that actually allows for the extension of the validity of certain documents, if nothing else for citizens to pay the fine because their document is expired. Like what? if the person has expired not to pay 500,00 kn, to allow them to use it until this danger passes because they do not have to physically go to the police station to extend that document because we are still a country of counters and seals even though we intend to stop being. For illustration, the town of Bokaana in the municipality of Voćin is only a few kilometers away from the central town of Voćina. Do you know how many letters he travels from Voćin to Bokana? Eight days, you heard right, eight days. HP, what the state orders services from HP, a third of these services are sent to send letters between individual state bodies, so, then these letters physically go. So we have to admit that in this area we haven't done anything, we can't say anything, something's done, but we haven't done enough anyway. And that's why it's not surprising, and this one's talking about the pass, March 23rd, the minister, excuse me, secretary of state, has made a decision to ban the movement outside of the place of residence and residence, keep an eye out. It was later interpreted as not referring to the municipality's border, but why not write the municipalities and not the places. In the Republic of Croatia we have 128 cities, 428 municipalities and 6756 towns, settlements. So it was very clear in the headquarters's decision that the pass refers to leaving the place of residence, 6756. Well, let's not be surprised now, as it's said, as a chickenworm, that we have so many passes. Civil headquarters was supposed to sit with, always, always saying government doesn't do that. We have a 555+1 unit of local self-government, so let's sit down with these people, organize the Republic of Croatia. It could've been done, Art. 54. The Law on Local Self-Government states that more municipalities can establish a common body, so more municipalities and cities could establish a joint headquarters, so that the headquarters would issue passes for leaving the area. Territorial reconstruction is certainly a subject to think about, but it's something else. This could have been solved in a very, very appropriate and to say, a reasonable way and today we wouldn't have these problems, which we have because we're really being called by citizens. I've been reprimanded several times as an advocate and said well because you represent our citizens, so what do we do, we don't have a butcher's shop, we don't have, and the post office is now closed in these times, they don't have people, schools stop, so people no longer have anything in their place where, where they live, they have to leave that place, and accuse them of being, that they're undisciplined because they're looking for a pass, it's not good at all. So this set of laws will certainly be supported because it must be made possible for citizens to have their documents valid in this way so that they do not pay the fine and that they can continue to function normally, but in the future we should definitely think about, that these things, and we have the possibility of simply being in such a bureaucratized country as we are, that this is no longer happening, that we really reduce that red tape to a smaller measure, which we can do. And one more thing, Secretary of State, very important. In these large numbers of headquarters that people do today, they do serious work, hard work. There are many members of Civil Protection whether they are from DVD or they are members of the Civil Protection themselves, who are very valuable now doing the job, and many of them themselves are unemployed. Think about giving them some compensation, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197111	We continue with the debate that is divided, the next one is Orepic. Here's a colleague of mine. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197112	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I want to take the opportunity and say it's okay when we meet our citizens in this way to allow them to solve problems in a simpler way that means this situation. But we're in this situation because we've been passing this law that we're now supplementing in a hasty procedure when it shouldn't have gone in a hurry procedure. If we hadn't gone through an emergency procedure, we'd have thought about that law, we'd assume all the variations, and we'd have assumed a solution to what to do in extraordinary situations like the one we're dealing with. I insist that we must be legalists, we must respect the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, the fact is that we are in a state of emergency and we have to declare it, it involves this House of the High in decision-making processes in this crisis situation. It's a key thing to say that we justify why we're even sitting in this hall or any other hall where we're sitting. The key thing is to bring reality into line with the normative. Now here's a banana example. Minister of Health based on the Law on the Protection of Publicity, Art. The 47th is the only one who can make a decision on quarantine to express myself, i.e. restrictions on movement, etc. What's happening to us, but that law means compensation. If we knew that, we wouldn't suggest some sort of crown fee or I don't know what other fees, but the minister is obliged or has the possibility to lay down the amount of compensation already provided under the law under that law. Unbelievable, and we bring a restriction on movement under the Civil Protection Act. The 22nd point, which in any sentence at all, does not speak in a sentence about a situation that involves infectious diseases, protection from infectious disease, or this situation where we are. So that's our absolute discrepancy with the laws that exist that I can't even read, obviously as if we don't know. Here, I'm going to ask a few simple questions, which law are prescribed and what measures to disobey a decision to ban movement without a pass, what law does that make? From everything suggested to conclude that somehow on the back of this crisis it wants to profit in another direction. Can we conclude and guess now? I know the heresy is now attacking the Civil Protection Command because if we can't, we should applaud. We will not applaud where we should not applaud, there have been much worse situations, much worse situations where the law was respected, where the state was respected. If the movement is limited, it shall be based on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The 47th is the minister of health who is obliged to deliver and compensation according to that, the amount of compensation, of course, in agreement with the finance minister in line with the possibilities. A whole series of these issues stemming from this illegal act, this unconstitutional act concludes that the HDZ has set out in pre-campion, pre-electional pre-camping, bringing such populist measures that suit a large number of inhabitants, who can read good intentions, etc. It's the only conclusion. So there's no stopping to conclude something rational except for something like that because we have the basis for existing laws on measures that we insist on looking for, we're passing some weird laws, laws on the law. Please, this is a crisis situation let's commit ourselves to making an emergency situation, Parliament is a place of obligation and duty to participate in decision-making processes when these circumstances are in the state and it must be respected and maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197113	Thank you, too. I'd like a little intervention before the final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The last debate is on behalf of the club of MPs is a debate by fellow Sanader in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Secretary of State, all your colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also taking this opportunity primarily to thank all those who are working on this crisis today, all healthcare professionals, all our officers, all our firefighters, as well as all the members of the Staff who report us daily, and are working on these problems permanently. Here is a set of 4 laws, 4 interventions in a legislative framework that needs to be dealt with well this issue and ID cards and driver's licenses and passports and armed papers means all of those documents that many of us have, many of us, the driver's passport and some 100,000 Croatian hunters' licenses, so these are certainly important documents to keep in mind that so many people and here if we have seen the record that some 500,000 such documents are issued annually then we know how much of the need to intervene and that this legislative framework has intervened through these 4 laws for these 4 important documents to protect the primary meaning, these are also all the speakers of my predecessors said to protect our fellow citizens and to reduce this social contact which is most crucial in this issue of transmission of the virus that can be most dangerous in this social contact. The HDZ Club here, we heard from one of the previous speakers gave another one, asked for another additional clarification through the amendment where we wanted, so that no different interpretations would occur, and these four laws, to be put here not to end the epidemic, but to declare the end of the epidemic, not to cease the epidemic, but to cease the end of the epidemic, so that it was a clear formulation, although alone in the law for all four laws, it was clearly defined that these decisions and this legislative intervention were only valid during the epidemic, or 30 days behind. So, I think this was commendable and necessary and good to react in such a way that it did not come into any doubt about this situation. Here it is also, said a few things that might well be looked at, the question perhaps even some other activities or some other documents or other obligations that our citizens have, and when they need to go to places where more people are gathering. Surely it's worth the discussion to see this matter of technical examination, but I think that, personally, I think it's very questionable to question our means of transport and our vehicles and to leave the possibility that a vehicle is technically incorrect because it threatens, again, a large number of people, although today it's a time of less traffic, and then maybe you can think about it and see that kind of variant, which would mean if it were made. I don't agree with the attitudes expressed here, I don't know, that cops don't have protective equipment because, here, all the checkpoints and everything where I've had contact with the cops I've seen that they're well equipped, that they have full equipment, if some cop's currently taking off gloves or a mask somewhere, then surely that's no reason to declare now that the police don't have protective equipment because it's incorrect information and certainly, I think that you here from the ministry, too, clearly, you have to confirm it, and we see it every day that it's not true. Furthermore, the issue of the start when this crisis began, here it was immediately identified, of course, with both the legal and the political game, and it was said among other things, that it was the HDZ radio, that it had its own internal elections, and therefore allowed, first I have to say here, but also for the sake of the Croatian public, that no citizen from the neighbouring country participated in our internal elections because our party has a territorial organisation, so it must be registered in the territory of Croatia. But here, in order not to be identified and not to make it false here, in the sense that the time of the start of the measures was timed, when 29.1., or 28.1. at the energy conference "Energy 2020." Prime Minister Plenkovic made a statement, then many mocked her, and said, "The health ministry is an important responsibility that we have at this time as chairman and as a country that is together with others, it must be prepared to defend itself against the widespread epidemic of coronary virus. This requires the full focus of the ministry on these topics." So that was 28.1. From 28.1. here, this statement makes it clear that we were already in intensive activity related to this preparation and action of the battle against the coronaryvirus. So they're inaccurate and malicious infor.../incomprehensible/... here are statements that say it's tied to a vote within the HDZ. Here was a good proposal from a previous colleague, that the organization was a pass. Surely, we can talk about whether there are problems, which are problems, solving problems if they have the difficulties of people on the ground, but surely one of the good measures is here proposed by Mr. Sagar, which is legally possible, that more units of local self-government, means no more settlements, but more units of local self-government under the Civil Protection Act can organise a joint civil protection headquarters. So maybe even through this debate we should invite our people on the ground to less, especially smaller municipalities, see ways and opportunities to create joint headquarters or even to bond with larger communities. This particular can be for our islands, which can then make civil protection headquarters for the entire island and thus resolve the issue of passes, but certainly citizens have shown this through polls and public statements, that these passes were made primarily to protect the public. It is not for the sake of any strictness training, nor for any abuse, but primarily for the protection of human health, and therefore for the safety of people. So it's incorrect to switch it to anything else, and it's also not right to insult people in the country and say that people in the country don't have Internet, that people in the villages don't have cell phones. We know that every fellow citizen who has a cell phone, has the internet and has the possibility of correspondence, and that the older households are helped by younger people, the Red Cross is well organized, has made himself available to the Croatian people and leaves the possibility of helping anyone, anyone who has problems, should report to their headquarters civil protection, and I am sure that human beings can solve any problem, and malevolence in these activities can be found whenever someone wants to. If the problem is to be solved, I think we must all be unique in solving the problem, that we must invest our overall strength and that is the best way to overcome this situation. On behalf of the HDZ Club, clearly, we will support all these four laws along with this amendment, which will then be evaluated by the legislator, but I think it would be good, just to find ourselves in any situation to begin to interpret when the epidemic is over and when the epidemic is stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197115	Thank you. I'd like a little intervention before the individual debate begins. The first is his colleague Pernar, a colleague of Pernar, who does not have the right to debate in accordance with Article 233. Next fellow Bulj, colleagues in accordance with Article 233 loses their right to debate. Next is colleague Angelko Striker, he's here, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197116	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues who told us two months ago that the world would be affected by an epidemic of literally biblical proportions that stopped the world, and in some countries and destroyed the hospital systems, I believe that no one would believe it. Because of the coronary epidemic, our lives have changed completely in one day, conferences, cultural sports events, travel, gatherings and gatherings are cancelled. We are daily in front of small screens, we follow the report and the instructions of the crisis headquarters, calls for action "to stay home" and publication of the media. By the way, we follow the situation in a world that's a little scary, so we read, the Italian army drives the bodies of the dead from the crown virus, the crematorium works uninterrupted New York to step up to disaster, the mayor urgently asks for 3,000 respirators and so on. When we follow such news normally to ask ourselves where is Croatia in all of this? So Croatia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the outbreak of the coronary virus and at the rate of the infected and at the rate of mortality. This means that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the crisis headquarters make decisions in good time, and all services and institutions of the police, military, firefighters, doctors, nurses, civil protection, or all involved, are doing their job well under the new circumstances. In order to continue to successfully fight the outbreak of the coronary virus, it is important that as many citizens as possible remain at home. For these very reasons, i.e. that the fewer citizens are coming to the police station counters, the government has, in an emergency parliamentary procedure, given the additions to the 4th laws proposing the extension of the duration of the documents and permits issued, 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The I.D. Act provides that the person who owns it must submit a request for a new one, for example. for the following reasons, if it has expired, if personal data on its personal name have changed, if it has changed its residence in the Republic of Croatia, if the photo on the identity card no longer corresponds to the person’s appearance, if the identity card is damaged, if it is partially or completely broken or for any other reason does not serve its purpose, it shall be possible to use it and would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. In order to enable our citizens currently located outside the Republic of Croatia to return i.e. the passports issued, and they expire during the duration of the epidemic, were proposed by the law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, they would be considered valid 30 days from the end of the epidemic. The additions of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens shall allow citizens to make certain actions required within the prescribed time limits such as the submission of applications for the issue of an armed list for weapons supplied, the delivery of assurances of health skills or documents to have the technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons and the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and other weapons, and whose deadline of undertaking falls during this epidemic, to do so when conditions are obtained, or 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The additions to the Road Safety Act also enable the use of issued driving licences, which expires for a period of longer than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. It is evident from the above that all measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including these amendments to those laws, aim to protect human lives and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that the proposals to extend the validity of the identity card, passport, driver's license and the armed list are welcome and another measure in the fight against the coronary epidemic of the virus. I'll support those laws of supplementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197117	Thank you, too, please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, fellow Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197118	You said and started your speech that someone told us two months ago, so I ask if you heard that statement mentioned by Mr. Ante Sanader of 26.1. that the prime minister then warned Croatia and the European public about the dangers of the coronary virus, and I would remind you that 19.3 was the first measure or amendment of the Civil Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197119	Let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197120	I could have said two or three months ago, but that goes to 28. January.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197121	Thank you. We no longer have replicas, please intervene and continue the debate of colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197122	Dear colleagues and colleagues here today have already been told a lot about this package of measures that we are discussing today, and how we were actually discussing on Friday a package of measures that will help the economy, this is today one package of interventions in 4 laws to even better endure this state of emergency and crisis for the sake of coronary disease, and in a way that allows our fellow citizens not to suffer certain consequences that may have or may not come into breach due to the non-expropriation of certain IDs or travel documents or a valid armed list or driver's license. I think this proposal in all 4 interventions in all four laws is justified and good for the reasons that we know ourselves and when certain regular conditions are always on the counters of our police administrations and orders for exactly the extension and identity cards and travel documents, as well as the driving licenses that most of our citizens use and have. And in order to really for these reasons of the epidemic that we have avoided such crowds on the counters, I think this kind of intervention in these laws is really justified. We ourselves know that the extension of such cards is due to two arrivals in the police administration, once for the submission of requests, and the second time for the takeover of these documents when they are finished, and not to mention that it is also necessary to have some photographs to make these documents, and given now these specific conditions in which we live when it is not possible to realize to go and maybe we don't have some spare photos at home, I think these situations are really justified, not only to protect our fellow citizens who are in this need but also employees of police administrations working on counters. Here I would really say to this occasion that we all have to think together in this situation of how to trust each other, to believe in the justification of everything we're doing in this difficult situation and really try to be responsible together to contribute in any way to stopping this disease as soon as possible and to getting all together back into the normal lifestyle that we had until a few months ago. I think that's our goal, and I really welcome every measure that will continue to be taken in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197123	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Hrvoje Zekanovic. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. He loses his right to debate. The next debate is from counterpart Ostojic, so the word is spoken. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197124	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will first of all talk about the issue of residence since an invasion of islands and Dalmatia has been allowed, etc. of 7.1. Since we bring here laws on the extension of certain things, the system of residence or residence does not function. I may be wrong, but everyone has a chance to use those regular legal options, so I think it's important to inform citizens about it. Secondly, we have not reached a solution, of course, as to how the police are replacing sanitary inspectors, we have not solved the situation as far as it is concerned, I guess today that the Staff has powers, but its powers are limited, and this Parliament may be bombed by similar laws as these today, and the real crucial question is whether we welcome them. I'll indicate we're one maybe important part, and that's the issue of crisis profiting. It was promised that it would be settled, I think that these are the things that are happening at the moment because some, as always, take advantage of the situation to profit in these crises, and I think it would be very important to come before this House. We need unity, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, the situation I warned about the pass I think is perfectly clear and that it is not understanding the situation on the ground itself. I've given specific examples. As for the issues of concealment, I ask you not to understand this because I see that the heresy has turned out to say anything, but it is necessary to say when certain things you consider to be a better solution, so the better solution is to make too many zones in which it works and works. I cited this as an example of Zagreb, and I think it is very important. I repeat, the unity yes, but not in the creation of chaos because what we now have between the municipalities to create obstacles on the mountainous roads is something that is really unnecessary and extremely wasteful for those who are, in one way or another, overworked with their work, specifically speaking about police officers. I think it's also important not to be allowed because the procedure is democracy. Democracy doesn't have without procedure and what I want to send as an important message, which is at this point being ignored by the Criminal Procedure Act. I didn't talk for no reason about police officers being burdened by having to do video shoots and stuff, that's when the law was, of course, rejected. And today we have a situation that everything that's done in these conscious conversations won't be used in a variant when it comes to the DORH for reasons you didn't want to accept the situation then, which is that the police can't do it at all times and in every way. And it will fall because such things no one has the right of course to suspend the Code of Criminal Procedure or ignore it. Let's also not embellish reality. In the center of the town of Kvatric, a student lost one thing, stealing. The presence of the police can't just be in the center, don't let what we know happens at this point. In Chucher, people guard their village at night, even with motor saws if necessary, this country cannot afford it. And I think it's very important that we don't embellish things but to do them in a way, which is true, the unity that, all of us, help, do everything to protect each other, but don't forget that there's a field. I just want to send a message, this isn't a competition in that when someone said something, I listed the exact dates. But I must say that the issue of reacting HS to the defence of democracy in the situation that we are the ones who have to protect the most procedure of that phalling must not be and the headquarters has no authority to replace the parliament and it must not happen in any case. If you need to be here every day, make those decisions, if you haven't already accepted that this extraordinary situation is also something that could be applied and a different article of the Constitution, I want to say for my part, we also said, support, yes, but not in creating chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197125	Thank you. Stay here, have one replica, here's your colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197126	A colleague Ostojić, not to mention important things, is one of the important things and that citizens have generally listened to the recommendation "stay home" and they need a big thank you. And when they need to walk on a promenade or a mountain path, it's limited to them, and even the police act. I think it's too much and we don't need it, and on the other hand we're coming to the Republic of Croatia our fellow citizens, but we see even strangers coming to us catamarans yesterday in Zadar and they're going to be sent to self-insulation after taking the wipe. Do you think this should have been more severed and quarantined, thus preventing the spread of the infection in the Republic of Croatia because citizens are solidarity with each other, being safe, guarding each other, and coming at us with danger from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197127	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197128	1.4. We had 3467 people who were violating self-insulation, and the numbers were shrinking. But I can't answer that. However, a much bigger problem is that it cannot even answer your headquarters. To my question from a month ago whether to wear a mask or not, to this day we still don't know the answer. So when someone tells me that people are protected from wearing masks and gloves then let me know if it's necessary for us all to have or not, and that's what people are looking for and what they need, and for everything else they will answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197129	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, a small, little intervention after counterpart Ostojić, colleague Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197130	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and fellow MPs. The law's intensities are good, but I don't know if I'm going to vote for him. I mean, I'm in a big dilemma. Much more difficult restrictions and things applied to a large number of Croatian citizens have been taken by the Civil Protection Staff, and then for a small administrative measure that actually helps citizens, the decision of the assembly is sought. And why couldn't this technical measure be brought by the Civil Protection Staff? We both know that those measures that are now in force, which have been adopted by the Civil Protection Staff, which constitute restrictions on the rights of the Constitution, restrictions on citizens of the rights of the Constitution, should also not have brought about a staff but a council, either in the worst case, the Government or the Ministers of Health, by virtue of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Why am I saying that? So, for the fourth time from this booth, I will call for a decision to ban leaving the place of residence, to be corrected in a way that areas that are not allowed to leave to be in line with the former territorial system, not with the current one, not because the former system is territorially better, perhaps, but that is not important at the moment, but because these areas are defined as areas where every citizen in that area can exercise some of his own rights. For example, on the island of Brac we have 3 gas stations, and 8 municipalities, we have 3 malls located in one unit of local self-government. The island is usually almost isolated because it's very hard to get on a ferry and there's not one infected, the number of people in self-insulation, I think, is now one-digit. In fact, I no longer see the need for any restrictions that we have in the rest of the Republic of Croatia to be present more on the islands. So you can't come to us, no one's infected, here's the people in self-insulation, and then you can think that the restrictions that are justified are still in other parts of the Republic, they're being abolished. For example, there is a procession behind the cross on the island of Hvar on a big Thursday. In order for it to even be held in this narrow form, which is with 5 to 10 people in the procession, they need to win a pass because they pass through the municipality of Jelsa and the town of Stari Grad in two, in two parishes located there. That's also absurd. Therefore, my appeal is again that these areas where they are not allowed to leave without a pass to, to be corrected in a way that they are the territories of former municipalities. What Mr. Sanader just said in, in his debate on behalf of the club, if I get it right, he supports that intensity, if I didn't get it right, we'll correct it in a replica or in an individual debate, but that's to be corrected. Because still if we were to bring all the counties together, then no, when, if we put that county that can't be left, the first one would still be twice as small as the City of Zagreb, which, with 800,000 inhabitants, represents one area that shouldn't be abandoned. Therefore, the decision as is now written and applied is an disproportionate restriction on the right of citizens to move, especially from smaller backgrounds. Thus, it is one discrimination based on a place of residence that is not proportionate to the danger that is removed by that decision. So the village of 100 inhabitants and the city of 800 000 inhabitants is far greater than the spread of the infection in the city of 800 000 people, so there are no restrictions, and there are restrictions between two villages with 100 and 500 inhabitants because there is an administrative border between them of a municipality, and there is an area which the state authorities recognise as unique because most of the state institutions are set up so that there is one facility by former municipalities. The other thing is, the second thing is the current non-application of the Law on residence and residence of citizens about not being able to apply or extend residence. So some citizens did not find themselves guilty of a situation that could be considered semi-legal. So before the decision takes effect on the ban on leaving the place of residence or permanent residence has gone somewhere, we would like to legalise that status, and I cannot apply for a residence where they are now. And that way, and that would be useful, the state would at least have the data of how many people there are right now, and then it could possibly adapt to some of the health and other services that could be done in that area. I have some ideas so we can work this out, but I don't have time to tell them anymore, so I'm going to add the written discussion to the secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197131	Thank you. Please stay here, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197132	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Bauk, here's a chance to extend the debate further. In fact, when you talk about the boundaries of areas that citizens shouldn't leave without a pass, they could be former municipalities, I couldn't agree more. But it would be enough to send the Staff or the Government now to the units of local self-government a memo in which they will return back to the reasonable limits. The local administration units will do so within two hours, send which is too much of an area within which it cannot move without the citizens' pass. And with you, I agree, there are municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that are small municipalities, even more municipalities if we say the entire former municipality of Podravska Slatina we combine into one whole there are no more than 20 and some thousand inhabitants. So these are things that can be resolved to benefit the citizens, and ultimately security would be respected because there would be no danger to the threat of the population from the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197133	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197134	Thank you. So I noticed that as soon as that decision was made to make these more logical areas the intensity of the decision would remain the same, only there would be no more 500,000 e-passes but there would be maybe 50,000 e-passes. I will ask the Minister of Administration how many passes apply to areas of former municipalities which should then no longer issue passes for that number of citizens. I have to say it myself, I don't think this is why we should change the territorial structure. So the territorial structure usually needs to function under normal circumstances, it's not a good state of emergency to use to change regular things. So it's not freedom of movement that should be limited in a normal situation. So that's one instinct. The local headquarters might do it, but why take responsibility for themselves because everything's fine until it's first infected, and then when it's first infected, they'll ask the local headquarters why you did it. So it is better to make a decision centralised and that local headquarters apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197135	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras. A colleague of Maras doesn't have an article. 233. He loses his right to debate. We continue with an individual debate, the last reported debate within the time foreseen to report the debate is a debate from counterpart Ante Sanader. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197136	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I agree with what Mr. Sagar said, and Mr. Bauk, it is clear that these are situations where we need to find the best forms of how the system will work. No one's desire nor the sense of making some kind of strict measure that will be the purpose of who? You're on your own. So the meaning and desire and purpose of all the measures being taken is to protect the public, human health comes first. It's the only meaning, the only interest and the only reason why all these measures are being taken. I think it's clear to all of us that every benevolent accepts it because it's the fate of all of us, the health of all of us. And just being unreasonable wouldn't accept everything that's reasonable. And the headquarters and all those who eventually make such decisions and the local headquarters will always accept every good idea, no one was born smart. So today we're making changes to the law, four laws, why don't we bring something new tomorrow if we see that something doesn't work in the field and in life. So there are solutions, there are possibilities of this kind of joint headquarters. It could be the headquarters of a big city with a smaller city, just taking into account what Bauk said, that these measures don't bring new infections then it'll be a problem, and that's not a wish to anyone. And in that sense I was saying we need to be unique, these aren't things where we need to compete who's smarter than we have to look together for the best solutions like in any crisis, any disaster. I've had a lot of experience with fires and big fires and catastrophic situations and we've never had a fight over solving problems. Every normal accepts all good suggestions, all good remarks, and so does headquarters. And today's debate should be a message to the headquarters for good remarks. We're unfortunately talking a little bit about these laws, these four legal solutions are they well written, we don't have that practical thing to say, but we have what we're saying out of life. What we get every day, many of you come across people from the field, your fellow citizens come to you, acquaintances come forward and say something doesn't work, something needs to be done. Here, so I believe and I'm sure, and I know people who work at headquarters that everyone will be well-intentioned to accept all the good suggestions and ideas. And in that sense, let our debate go today. Here I'd like to use this last minute of debate to say a few words about firefighters because here I am daily with my firefighters on the ground, we don't have a special headquarters we're part of a normal total headquarters, but here's correct for the sake of the citizen to know that the activities that the firefighters are doing with this regular fire extinguishing here yesterday we had, for example. 61 fires of open space throughout Croatia. There wasn't a single disaster, but yesterday they were working canaders, just for the record. And here's like an appeal to fellow citizens, maybe some people use this situation a little bit and go into the field, which they can go won't get infected, but to make sure they don't start and do something that can cause a fire and then lead the firefighters into a commitment to go to the intervention, and then that makes it possible for firemen to get infected. But well, thank God there are no such contagions, firemen have a system, well organized, they have protection, and so far there have been no such cases. But here's just as a note 1,500 firefighters are engaged daily on these measures against the coronary virus. So that's what they're all about and helping the police on checkpoints and transports, headquarters and everything they need, especially in smaller areas, you know that in small places there are firemen for everyone, to help with all the interventions, that these local headquarters, headquarters in small towns, they're practically the first hand, so here, here. That's a thousand and a half firefighters. In Zagreb alone, there were 2773 interventions, following the earthquake. Secondly, today 9 counties outside the city of Zagreb are helping the city of Zagreb. So 9 ladders, high scales from 9 counties are now in Zagreb and helping, and before that was 6 in the last shift. So they work actively, the fire department acts as one system throughout Croatia, and it is now seen in this situation, here, I welcome all my firefighters, thank them and support for their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197137	Please stay, we have two replicas here. First up, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197138	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sanader, it is an ideal opportunity to show unity in a replica like this. So, as far as decision-making is concerned... Will you just give me back some time? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, as far as decision-making is concerned, I think it's a good thing that there is a body that can make a decision that would come into effect immediately in a situation like this. I'm not sure it should be the Civil Protection Staff, I think it's better to be the Government and then, in one reasonable time, to come to the confirmation of democratically elected bodies in whose authority it is, such as the Parliament. My message to the citizens is, respect the decisions of the Staff, the Government, the laws, but continue to criticize them after you respect them and spend them because they can be better. It's democracy. So this, too, we've been proposing for some time to bring these areas into line with life situations, and so let it be done, after 2 weeks, that this measure has been adopted and that it's obviously in the number of infected, what's being published, and it's given some results. This is my humble, modest contribution to unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197139	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197140	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. Well, that's exactly what I said in my debate, and this debate today is our chance to make our remarks about what we see, what life brings us, what our voters, our citizens, our people, our locals, the locals, who we have contact with, our fellow citizens, and no one is opposed to it. Yes, of course. And then we suggest it to the Chief of Staff. Here, from today's debate, all this good we've heard that, we have the opportunity to improve the system, we suggest it to the Staff, if the Headquarters wouldn't accept it, then we could talk about the headquarters usurping power, but look. The headquarters must function, in crisis situations you can't wait for some, it's like a war, you can't wait for some decisions for a long time, decisions have to be made, and a report is submitted to the government and the Parliament here. Clearly, there is no alternative, democracy has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197141	Last line, here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197142	Thank you, dear colleague Sanader. Let's just point it out one more time. So, when we criticise these measures, that doesn't apply to it, nor do we think the intensity was the Staff that, as you say, usurped power. Everyone in this serious situation, the message of the Staff, with this restriction of movement was to the citizens, that the situation is extremely serious and that any unnecessary movement of the population should be prevented. But what citizens from the field tell us is that there are also victims of those who need to, who need to move. So, we need to keep that unnecessary movement to a minimum, but we can't disable the necessary movement, so go to a doctor, to a pharmacy, to a butcher shop or somewhere where people need supplies. Although it can be said that people can go, to them, many of them create significant problems, and because of this, these Staffs, in fact these measures should be adapted to the lives of the population, and I especially join you in thanking all firefighters in many small municipalities, DVDs are the ones who have put up with the great burden of the Staff itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197143	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197144	I don't think there are any municipalities that don't have a home of health or a hospital, a health care facility. But if there are such, then there should be, people from that field warn it and it has to be solved, and then when he comes to his primary health care doctor, if he guides him further into hospital treatment, so that manual is a pass that a man can pass there. No one's unreasonable, there's no, there's no robots, there's live people standing there. And I've witnessed it, I've been with my firemen there at the checkpoints, and people have understanding, there's no such problem. But if there are any such problems, then it is necessary to clearly warn and send such, such a remark, here are our representatives, our Staff, if the Staff will not bring it out here publicly, but I doubt there are such ones in the Staffs, and this state and the county, and especially the city and municipal, there are reasonable people who solve the problem and whose task it is. So I believe that if there are such things, let me know where, which we'll sort out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197145	Thank you. I'm asking for an intervention. Here you go. You may, Comrade Maras, be my guest. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I beg you, since this isn't the first time, these are spé.../incomprehensible/... so the Rules of Procedure has been injured in terms of holding a session, the very way we're working now is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but there was a deal between clubs at the Bureau of Parliament. What I would ask you, since we can't be present in the hall, to try to take care of that the MPs who checked in here, but that moment weren't inside and it's not happening to me right now, it's the first time that I'm not here, and here I've been out a little bit, so I came back, to allow people to argue if they're in the hall, and right now they're not in, if they're in The building, and they're not in the hall right now. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Here, I'll ask, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197147	I'll ask professional services to see who's here, who's not. I can't pay you back because I took your word. [[Intruder Maras: Yes, I ask you to return the word to me.]] Thank you. We're moving on. [[And why did you take my word for it?]] All right, please, colleague Maras, let's get on with the final... [[I've been outside the hall.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197148	I mean, don't just do the form of the Croatian Parliament. So we're sitting here, we should be able to argue. If it's not the conditions for us to work, don't work, but don't work just to form a session of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197149	We don't work for form. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197150	Thank you. She is the same business base as her colleagues, Maras, and you yourself and Mr. Sanader, the vice president of the Parliament are witnessing that I am at the session of the Parliament's presidency, which was held the first day we started here to discuss, asked that, not to apply a strict provision on the loss of words when there is no one in the hall because physically cannot be in the hall. Then I remained misunderstood, and only in this debate, Mr. Zekanovic, Mr. Bulj, Mr. Maras and Mr. Pernar, whom I didn't see here, and the three of them I saw lost the right to speak because of these restrictions could not be in the hall. I think it's a disproportionate sanction and that in the future, if we stay here, it should be corrected just like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197151	Here's a thank you in the future we'll correct that. Here's my colleague Ostojić, final. I'm going to ask professional services to inform agents who are outside who have no other way of informing. Thank you. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197152	And here's exactly what we're going to do to show that constructiveness again is to adapt to these opportunities. We haven't talked about the replica for no reason because it wasn't even a deal, and I'm going to repeat it again, the deal can't be an excuse to derrogate and move the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So please make sure you change that. As for the areas of too many areas and everything else, 10 days ago there was a debate here and I was speaking on behalf of the club and I was just saying that the question of a pass is not a good solution that they need too many borders, and I even suggested what here today I hope they will hear the headquarters, which is the territory of the former municipalities would be a logical solution and would not happen these absurds, which is that people in 6 local self-government units have to ask permission to go to a gas station to get back to a place where they normally have a place of residence. Also in the closing word, everything is intended to help constructively and I hope that they will listen to these very messages, then there was a sentence, and that is to use the experience of Lovran Municipality that took a small company from Bakar that then solved the issue of electronic passes, before that we had a rush on the counters. So it's good that they heard this part get rid of electronically, but I think it's important that the variant of the pass be resolved in a better way because this way we're going to have the extremely lost resources that we really need and we need to save them at this point, first of all I'm talking about people, cops who work and who control that state. As for covering up the real situation, don't view it as something incorrect. I think it's important that the real situation is for us, and especially since we haven't been through one crisis together, regardless of political considerations, we do our best when we know what the situation is. You don't need to embellish the picture, you don't need to lead it to a situation to say it's better than what's true next, and that's so we can react correctly, I think we have to accept ourselves this way. Criticism doesn't necessarily mean criticism, criticism can be well-intentioned, I hope we understand that, and therefore it was my sentence, unity, yes, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, when we are faced with the situation that many of the things that in our lives are doing more today cannot exist, when the situation is that regular health care cannot work, when our citizens and citizens are threatened, we expect to adopt in this Assembly the right measures that can really help. And I want to point out, the measures are not only repressive, the protection of citizens is among other things and the protection of their human rights. It's something that's important, the moment when, I agree with my colleague Sanader who said democracy has no alternative, we must not endanger it in any way, and I think it's very important to send a message here and here as a message, and be sure that you will have neither our support but should protect democracy above all, so that we can go back to normal life after this extraordinary state that we have at this moment. Therefore, any observations to be sent are the goal, the aim is to help and make a better solution, and there is no need to worry. And as for the citizens, we must protect them all together primarily here from this House, and by measures that don't go to heart, I will repeat human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197153	Thank you. Comrade Sanader final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197154	Clearly, I absolutely agree with the fact that democracy has no alternative, the protection of human rights has no alternative only we must first have people to protect their rights. If we don't have people, then we won't have to protect whose rights, so this is health protection, health protection is in first place right now. If we don't protect people's health, if we don't protect these people, then we won't be able to have their rights. So democracy has no alternative and human rights protection has no alternative. We can discuss some measures, if we estimate that some measures are not good then this place where we can discuss it, but we have to understand and we understand because our citizens show themselves daily by their behavior that they understand the danger, that they understand the situation we are in, that they realize that all the measures that are taken are primarily for the sake of people's health because it has no alternative. Only a healthy nation can have a future. And all that we see to potentially endanger democracy, but also human rights, then we need to talk about it publicly. But we can't take every measure if the meaning and all the most relevant experts in the world who spoke about the coronary virus about the epidemic said it was the most problematic social contact. Both the Staff and the Government and this Parliament have the responsibility to do their utmost to avoid this social contact, that it is as small as possible, to come down to the most needed measure. Again, when it comes to health, we can't say that it may have been justified if someone received a certificate for a specialist or a doctor in a hospital and then we won't let him in because of the other municipality, it was a cartoon. But we cannot, under the protection of human rights, endanger the health of our neighbours, our fellow citizens, that is where we must find the difference. I know and the greatest danger would be to compromise human rights in any way. We lived, we older bar here there are plenty of older ones living in a non-democratic system, and we know what it's like and don't God ever let it happen again. No party, no party, no government to question the threat of democracy and human rights, but we must bear in mind that we are currently in a serious epidemic situation, that serious measures must be taken, to see what is happening in our neighborhood. Some who have easily accepted what is happening have released the epidemic, today we see military trucks driving corpses. And the meaning and desire and the goal of all measures and the work of the Government and the work of the Staff and the work of this Parliament to preserve human lives. Here in this sense we have to be unique and we have to look for the best solutions and then there's no division in that business because that's the only thing that can get us to do good, that's the only reason why we're here and why people chose us. I appeal to everyone, and your behavior confirms that you understand that, and that we are all going to win this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197155	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197156	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I thank you all for your constructive discussion and your suggestions. But let me say a few words that would explain certain misunderstandings or questions that are not necessarily related to these four laws alone, but it concerns issues that she normally solves in nature. Here is the introduction of how many documents were issued last year, I will only briefly repeat, it was issued in police administrations and stations of 565,000 ID cards, 385,000 driver's licenses and 125,000 passports. So almost into the hair of a million issued documents in our police departments and stations. It is said here that for most of these documents it is necessary to come twice despite the possibilities given in recent years that for some of these documents such as the passport, such as the driver's license to submit the request by electronic means, therefore it is not to come then twice. It is also possible to change the residence by electronic means and to result in some kind of agreement, such as the consent of the landlord to apply for residence or residence, such as the consent of one parent to report a child to another parent or to give him a ID card or passport, but still, despite government efforts and resolutional ministries, the MUP, the Ministry of Administration, the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society, such requests are still subject to a smaller number of citizens by electronic means. So, despite this, in 99 police stations and 20 police administrations, so in 119 places, a million of these documents have been issued, which means in nature almost 2 million arrivals in the past year, so it's approximately all other years, and therefore these laws suggest that these documents, of which three basic documents with images that benefit us in different legal situations, will still be valid. It's not the intention that was said here, I think Mr. Sagar said, that it is here that prevents citizens from paying the fine. No, the main intention is trust in legal traffic, so the continuation of legal traffic that enables normal communication of citizens, economies that even at this time of difficult situations certain sectors, segments of society operate, to function and enable us to cope with this crisis period more easily. Of course these documents if only the Republic of Croatia recognises them will not be able to fulfill their purpose. They have already been prepared and as soon as Parliament, hopefully, votes these four amendments to the law, will go through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, diplomatic notes will be sent through our diplomatic consular representations to all countries to accept these extended documents and therefore the fact that our citizens cannot, as well as citizens of almost all other countries, replace this document in some regular, until now ordinary procedure. So also these situations of a necessary journey during this epidemic, our drivers doing a significant job supplying goods from other countries and from our producers driving them to other countries, so that they can function normally during this period. The issue of residence and residence has also been touched, and we have also considered changes to this law, you know that by decision of the Civil Protection Staff is not a possible change, it is not possible to travel except in justified cases between different places and therefore we will consider the possibility of an electronic change of residence when justified or when it also expires as these documents have expired. The residence annually, let's say the colloquial second residence reports about 140 persons and some of them, of course, in this period has expired or will expire and stay. We will consider this and, if necessary, correct that regulation. We think that these measures will bring about the possibility of legal traffic, the fluctuations of citizens to the most necessary extent that is now possible and permitted, and thus I believe that this issue and the e-prompt will be easier and more adequately solved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197157	Thank you. Please stay because we have three replicas. He is the first colleague of Ostojić, after him a colleague of Zhagar and then a colleague of Bauk. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197158	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I didn't understand whether a citizen could change his residence or not, or if it was exclusively downloaded for e-Citizens? I'm asking you this because you mentioned the decision of the Chief of Staff, there can't be a single headquarters that's the example that I'm telling you about to abolish existing legal provisions, so that's not supposed to happen. That's an example. Here I am constructively telling you that this cannot be allowed in Croatia, so you cannot lift someone's right to change their residence by decision of the Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197159	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197160	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. At this point, it is not possible to change the residence or residence because, of course, the decisions of the Staff on the restriction of movement could be disabling. However, we will work to enable, in justified cases, these changes that would not go in order to disabling the Staff's decisions on the restriction of movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197161	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197162	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. You'll have support for these measures. The general public's view is that the Staff has done a good job for the simple reason why key issues have been left to the profession instead of politicians, key issues to the profession, and that is the general public's view. And today I mentioned the Central State Office for Digital Society and there I said that most of us don't even know what he's doing, but it's not their fault. And in that case, if we leave it to the profession, there's a lot of professional people sitting in that office to let them do their job, then they probably wouldn't even have these problems today because they'd probably live up to a lot of e-documents. And finally to conclude, regardless of how the Staff has come to these powers, which is being warned by counterpart Ostojic, he is doing a good job. However, what we must think at no time can any headquarters abolish the democratic standards of society, i.e. Put the laws below your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197164	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The government's intention to enable and encourage Croatian citizens and other foreigners who are legally staying to use electronic services and who are opening up more and more every day, therefore it is increasingly possible to request a particular document by electronic means or to give some consent as I said earlier. Staff decisions here cannot comment, but I can say that, of course, the aim of all state authorities is to facilitate these decisions of headquarters, to operate and to make it easier for society to live by these decisions which, of course, are not always easy for a number of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197165	And the last replica of your exposure to colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197166	Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you correct your statement a little bit because you just said that the headquarters has put the residence law out of force. It's usually called a coup in democratic countries, so correct it a little bit, find a better formulation. But the intensity to change the residence is not correct because in this case it would only be about changes in residence that would actually aim to bring the situation in line with what would then be written in the residence. So if someone who now has a residence in Varazdin, and now located in Virovitica changed their residence on Virovitica, there would be nothing intensifier about banning movement, however, it would be better because he from Virovitica could no longer go anywhere. So the intensity that the residence does not violate the headquarters measure does not make sense, so it does not seem logical. Someone would just put a place where he was and then he wouldn't be able to leave it by the same valid decisions of headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197167	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197168	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Any citizen may otherwise change his residence within 15 days to report it to the police office or station. We can't know whether or not someone in the last 15 days before the adoption of these measures changed residence, but you are calling for us to recognise the illegal situation from before, because we know that there are always a number of people who either from a coma or from some expectations or interest don't report their residence and residence as they should under the law. So for them, we can't change the rules now so that people like that can amnesty out of responsibility. But the longer these measures last, of course they will seek appropriate answers through laws and other regulations, the more we cannot cement. I don't remember saying that the headquarters put out the law, I don't think I said it, but if I used a similar expression that referred you to it, I'm sorry I didn't intend to say it, and I certainly didn't say put it out of force. I'm a lawyer and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197169	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, the Law on IDs, the Law on Road Safety and the Law on the acquisition and possession of arms to citizens at 13:33 p.m., and we will vote when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197170	The following is the statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Road Safety Act. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. The amendment is in order. 1. Here you go, Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197171	The amendment, the Proposer, accepts the amendment because this makes the legal norms better and becomes clearer. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197172	So it's acceptable. Thank you very much. We're done with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197173	Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 901. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the amendment was accepted. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Road Safety Act. Who's against it? There isn't. Who's restrained? Please count who's restrained. And who's in? I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on the Completion of the Road Safety Act. A score of 125 for five abstentions. We are now starting with the first united debate, these are 4 laws: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Safety of Croatian Citizens, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Personal IDs, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Traffic Safety and - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of Arms of Citizens All are an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. From 899 to 902. The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Prior to the proposing representative, it will be the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, respected Davor Bozinovic, a colleague of Bernardic, who asked for a break. You can go there anyway, however you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197175	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament today is on the agenda of the bill on the extension of travel documents and I am therefore looking for a break today, simply because we need to understand that at this moment there are people to be provided with, to extend security in this period. And that is why we are asking that our proposal of the Moratorium Act be discussed tomorrow morning, together with this debate on amendments, and that tomorrow at 12 o'clock, this law be put to the vote in the Croatian Parliament. The contribution to this thesis is that this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197176	A colleague of Bernardić, a colleague of Benardić, just a little please. So, you can ask for a break on the agenda points. You're not asking this, you're asking that one other item of the agenda be discussed before it's scheduled. So now you're not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197177	Okay, I said if you extend the IDs, then the travel documents need to extend the security to the citizens that they don't have to fear paying off the loan. In particular, because the law was supported, it was supported by part of the ruling coalition's representatives on the Finance Committee. Therefore, at this point, the Finance Committee has adopted the Moratorium Bill's proposal for loans to citizens and entrepreneurs for a year, I suggest that you put it on the agenda tomorrow and vote on the moratorium tomorrow at 12 o'clock in order to provide security for people in Croatia. Citizens to continue their normal lives and entrepreneurs to continue their normal business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197178	Well, you used your request for a break in a way that I find unfair, but that's your decision. A colleague of Glasnović, you're reporting for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197179	Thank you. I'm asking for a break to discuss these two laws, a consultation from this club's party regarding IDs, IDs. It is closely related to Croats outside the country and there is also Mr. MuP Minister we are still waiting for a new law on Croatians on citizenship, this has not been settled, we are long waiting, people are worrying about the problem, the issue of these documents takes months, years. The question is that the process will be simplified or the sabotage that started long ago will continue, we know how it went. A Croat would have to, for example. from Toronto in fact Vancouver in Toronto, 6 hours summer, then you would have to carry out the Croatian language test, now according to some new announcements will not be in the new law, then you would come to Petrinjska, then you would have to go to Chernomerac, etc. This bureaucracy she, it is intended sabotage, of course, if we talk about democracy, human rights, but it is taken from people outside, these people are citizens of this Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Some have come here, they've got double taxation, they've got left money, they've got houses, they can't come back fast enough to solve the problem of seized property, property-legal relations, and the question of when the law is bound, the new law on citizenship wants to speed it up so that these people get back, to break those blockades. We've got people out there, for example. which we need, for example. The Croatian-American society of professionals can contribute to this country, but if we talk about human rights as people outside see it. The right to vote has been taken away, they don't have it, they've taken away the right to private property and, of course, the blow we see from left-wing media on freedom of faith, they hit these churches. And that would be a short one, yes. We don't play Democrats here anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197180	Okay, the break will be approved. Here you go, buddy Bull. Also a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197181	Thank you very much. Here, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. The topic is extension, one of these is identity cards because the deadlines on the measures we have are difficult to achieve, and I think that's good. But here, too, when we talk about IDs, documents, we should talk about people living in certain areas, and they can't place their products on markets. Well, since the Minister and Head of the National Civil Protection Centre are here, I am not clear that foreign products are sold in trade chains from Italy, Spain, now their strawberries, Vrgorje strawberries will not be possible, fruit material will be able to be sold in markets, and why would we not be organised in markets and I don't understand why the markets are closed, and the trade chains work where foreign import products are? Imports destroyed us, people's safety, at this point, mostly farmers are the key to the whole story. We set Croatia up and allow agricultural products to be sold on open markets with all security measures. People are in huge trouble. Not milkmen, cheesers, people who sell vegetables, fruits, they can sell their products, and they're at risk of safety. At this point there is no higher priority than self-sufficiency because the wrong policies we have led so far have shown that Croatia is an unprocessed state, an unprocessed agricultural land. Instead of inviting you to buy your home in our markets, with all the security measures, volunteers will provide better than in the trade chains of the security measure. So once again, I support this proposal made by the Government But finally open the markets [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] to enable the sale of domestic products. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197182	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue to work at 11 o'clock exactly. THE PURPOSE CONTINUED AFTER MEETING Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I announced before the break, we are discussing four laws under the jurisdiction of the MUP. I'd like to remind you, given the agreement we have reached, the promoter will speak for 20 minutes, clubs for 10 minutes and individual debates will be five minutes. I would now ask that, on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation of the law that respected Davor Bozinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will not speak for 20 minutes, but I assume this will be a matter, so it is four laws, so on the additions of the Law on the ID card, on road safety, on the acquisition and possession of arms and the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The additions are proposed for the reason that citizens, in the light of the circumstances of the declared epidemic, come to the counters of police administrations and stations, and that, through the reduction of close contacts of protection and citizens, as well as officials who conduct administrative procedures. For example, in 2019 and police administrations and stations, 565,524 ID cards, 284,559 driving licences and such issuing procedures were issued, unless they were electronically indicating that citizens would come twice to the registers of administrative work, when applying and for the purpose of taking over the documents made. The additions to the ID law are therefore proposed to allow citizens in the situation resulting from the Covid-19 disease epidemic to use an earlier issued identity card which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic and would allow them to take over issued identity cards within the same time limit. That I don't repeat the argument because it's the same for every law. The same would apply, therefore, to the Road Safety Act, which would have been considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic, thus allowing citizens and for certain actions to be carried out within a specified period of time, such as the check-out of a vehicle which will not be used temporarily or permanently, the acquisition of a manufactured licence, the conduct of a surveillance check and the second, may also take place for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. As regards the addition of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons, it would allow owners to use previously issued arms sheets which would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the date of termination of the epidemic as well as the actions required by the prescribed law, such as the submission of a request for the issue of an armed list for weapons purchased, the delivery of assurances of medical ability or documents to have technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons, the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and the like. Finally, by supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, it is proposed to allow citizens during the duration of the epidemic to use a passport which expired for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic primarily to return to Croatia's Croatian citizens whose passport expires during the duration of the epidemic and is abroad. Here, I think it's pretty clear and I wouldn't, of course, unless there were questions that went further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197185	We have 8 replicas because 3 MPs have signed up from the SDP Club, which can be maximum 2, so please just tell each other who won't replicate because you contacted your colleague Vidović, Ostojić and Maras. You will not, well, but you will not, colleague Ostojić. Then let's take it in a row. First mate, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197186	Ministers are clear about these measures in order to reduce our citizens' physical contact in making certain documents that have expired. But I've pointed you out to one I can't tell, let's say now we have these measures that people are from their places where they can't access without this pass to other places. It's illogical, for example. that places like my Sinj, the former Sinj municipality has 6 local self-governments and, of course, it is illogical that some smaller municipalities do not have the possibility of banks, or ATMs, the elderly cannot come to that area, so whether these measures can be taken which would be healthy to expand to former agglomerations i.e. The former kind of way that these municipalities and cities are connected, it's a simple center, for example. The son is all in Sinj, so that they would facilitate communication, and the measure would abide. That's very important. And another question that I asked you briefly, what about markets and domestic products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197187	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197188	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, first of all, when we talk about passes, you know everything we do these days is about implementing epidemiological measures that need to help us to prevent the infection in Croatia from reaching exponential growth and, according to everything we see, at least in the last few days, we keep the situation under control, so the growth in Croatia is linear, it is not exponential to make it clearer. The most famous scientists in this area have warned very early, and we read very early about it and thought about it and made decisions about it, which means that if you're a week late with some decision, that the number of infected and then, associated with it, and the number that... What? Yeah, I'm sorry. [[President: Time is only running out, you finish, you have a minute.]] Okay. So we created one system that we now have, this morning there were about 520 thousand e-passes issued, so that's, we're about approaching that optimal number which then allows us all of this, as you know, from the idea to the realization. It took a few days. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197189	Comrade, just a minute, Minister, I beg you, let's hold on for a minute. Now I let go and in the next answers, I still get Look at it [[Okay, here I really didn't take care of it.]] You got it. [[I wanted to explain, but good.]] Next. [[Agreement: Markets are on the way today to talk to everything... What?]] Next. No, wait, wait a minute. Some now encourage to answer, others earn that time is up. No one threw, here, ask a colleague, Zekanovic. ... Yes, yes, e.... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't all have two minutes, we'll all have one minute, so please, Minister, then answer this question in the other. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in your public appearances, you often thank people who are on the front lines of the fight against the virus. Among them are cheerleader groups even though you never mention them but talk about young people, therefore. Just to clarify to the Croatian public, so right now in Zagreb fans' groups are engaged in 3 areas, they deliver food and medicine to older people and self-insulation people. They're on duty in the soup kitchens, doing order, social distance, and moving things to people who've suffered an earthquake. So in the context of what they are currently doing, can you explain to the Croatian public whether you will continue to insist on the Fans Act, which is being punished from 15 to 30 thousand kunas for 0.5 promills and people who violate the self-insulation of 8 thousand kunas. I mean, that's deeply unfair, so answer the Croatian public that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197192	I, the esteemed Mr. Representative, would take advantage of this occasion and thank everyone, including members of the fan groups who at this time volunteer and show solidarity with those members of society who are either part of the most vulnerable groups or simply cannot meet all those needs, primarily related to the procurement that, as we ourselves know, is limited. So, once again, I thank you all, and for the peacetime topics when the epidemic passes. As far as we're concerned, did we get into the red?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197193	No, he can't. Now let's go to Question 3, Replica, colleague Vidovic, here you go. Don't confuse my colleague Bulj with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197194	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I'm only interested in a brief and clear question. Was the government meeting really held on January 9th, as counterpart Bacic claimed the other day in connection with the coronary virus. And secondly, how is it possible, if the meeting was held that these measures had not been effective 15 or 20 days ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197195	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The Croatian government, prime minister, its associates were likely among the first to detect that something was happening in China and should be monitored. However, even then, and also today, and then especially there were still too many unknowns to talk about whether this virus would come to Europe, as it would spread, there was not enough information. However, the fact is that we were also talked about and that this epidemic did not surprise us in relation to some other countries, including us neighbouring countries, because that's how it tells us that we have linear growth, and some much larger and more developed countries with which we have watched what they're doing have lost control of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197196	Thank you. We're going to a colleague named Bilek now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197197	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that for every commendation and these four laws that are on our agenda today that we really respect all that the Civil Protection Staff and its recommendations, all that he proposes, on this side here we thank you and everyone in the Staff for the dedicated work and for the measures that have been introduced. I think we should thank everyone, including the meaning of honey. sisters, by doctors, doctors, drivers and all others, but of course, we should not forget all our other citizens, all the people who work in the building, but primarily our farmers who should worry about the self-sufficiency of our products, so on the other hand, here, I complement that question from my colleague, and the related market, you announced yesterday that you could go in a certain direction to sell products on the market under certain restrictions, so please here's the answer, when, when you can expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197198	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197199	So, like when closed parts of the market opened, we included local civil protection headquarters, just as we are talking, meetings with video conferences with all headquarters and associations of cities and associations of municipalities are taking place, and it is that they know about the conditions, especially the epidemiological conditions, so a limited area, a number of people who can at one time be, a distance between sales places and the moment we get feedback like when it was in the first case with closed parts of the markets when we get confirmed information from local headquarters that all decision-making measures are being taken will be released and will be published. I expect it can probably be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197200	We're going to a fellow Panenic now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197201	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, as Minister of the Interior, I am primarily asking you, it is also related to this law that you are primarily trying to protect the population from unnecessary contacts and we welcome that. But I'm going to ask whether they're protecting themselves enough, and the cops who are in touch, they stop us every day, and they're implementing these measures that are now limiting movement, and they're in contact with a number of people. We have seen that there have also been references to the amount of equipment, enough equipment, so I ask you directly whether all police officers and officials working with citizens have sufficient means of protection, whether they have seen enough quality that the first line of defense they come to and when they come from abroad, it is the police who are receiving them that is very important that the police are protected at the highest possible level. Is that how it is in Croatia right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197202	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197203	I thank you first and foremost for showing concern for police officers and officials who are among the most vulnerable activities in this crisis. They all have protective equipment and no police officer in particular who is in contact with citizens who do not have protective equipment. What is also the fact that protective equipment is at this point the most powerful issue in the world, but we have, through and through contacts and purchases primarily large amounts of this type of protective equipment because it is not the same of course for medical staff in intensive hospitals and others, assured that Croatian police officers including other emergency services have protective equipment, and this change of e-passage which is actually checked for mobile phone contact, or close to reading the QR code is actually a contribution to reducing unnecessary physical contact or touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197204	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197205	Dear Ministers, I will first conclude that Croatia had one great fortune that it was not a European country that first experienced a coronary infection with the virus. If we were in Italy, we'd probably have an Italian script. You said a few weeks ago that they were weeks ago, that one week was very important to infect flame or suppression, so I was wondering why you didn't leave a week earlier to this extent when you saw what was going on in Italy? Is the reason you might have had the HDZ election so it didn't start with the measures because you said yourself that one week was important, so we could have been much better, if you said so well. And the second question is, did you give up on that crazy intent to track your cell phone means to Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197206	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197207	As far as these findings are concerned, we know more about this epidemic every day than we knew before. I will remind you that in 19.3. without debate, the Assembly has voted to amend the Civil Protection Act, which has given the National and Civil Protection Staff the authority to take measures on the basis of the instructions of the profession, which should then be ensured at lower levels, given that the Civil Protection Organisation and under the Constitution are in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-governments. As for the other, it's not a question from the M.O.P.'s portfolio what's important, it's that we Of course, we are thinking about all the possibilities to reduce the spread of the infection, what is the solution to this issue, and what it will look like I can't tell you at this point because it's not an internal affairs portfolio, and I think how things are developing now convinces us that in fact these methods that have already been applied and that from some other times can produce results. [[Thank you, finish your sentence.]] Of course everything will depend about how the epidemic situation will develop. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197208	Here you go, fellow Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197209	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as you know, Zagreb hit a devastating earthquake a little less than 2 weeks ago, which has further made the situation worse in the City of Zagreb related to this unfortunately crisis that we have. You said yourself that we have changed the Civil Protection Act, I can tell you that in the City of Zagreb things don't work, that people are waiting very much for the most basic things and what I would like to ask you here is to pay attention to security in the City of Zagreb, especially because a lot of people have come out of their properties and apartments and ask you to strengthen the security of the city center so that police surveillance can be greater over these properties, to ensure the properties of our citizens and on the other hand to ensure all the dangerous places from the passage because there is still a lot of construction material that can fall from these buildings. What I think, that unfortunately late in the City of Zagreb is all that insurance or reparation and insurance of these facilities, so please to secure it as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] On the other hand, I thank firemen who have been working tirelessly for 2 weeks from all over Croatia and help our citizens to bring about the purpose of certain facilities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197210	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197211	Here, I can only say what I publicly said yesterday about data on crime in the Republic of Croatia, it is in decline, probably because of all these measures of restrictions on movement and now we don't have time to analyze. As for the safety of the facilities in Zagreb, police, along with other services, immediately went out on the ground and thank God for the subsequent incidents of this kind, were not, except for the unfortunate case of the firefighter who died and, of course, the first case of the girl who died during the earthquake, so all available police forces provide not only the centre of Zagreb, but the reinforced centre of Zagreb and I really have no information at this point about having any major movement of the robbery, but I understood your message. And be assured that the police and that part of the work will be done. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197212	Comrade Vlaović, you are the last to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197213	Thank you. Dear Minister, I welcome this decision to extend the deadline for extending documents to citizens not to put pressure on police administrations, but our proposal is to extend it to 60 days because I think 30 days is too short. And secondly related to the holders or holders of the licenses to carry and hold arms and hunters, as of April 1st is the new hunting season, so here's the question in which hunters can go to the hunting grounds, feed the game, worry about no poaching, prevent the spread of infectious diseases, and I think it would be good and send this message to our hunters to monitor and protect their health, but of course they also have to worry about their hunting ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197214	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197215	Thank you, very briefly, Mr. MP, this decision has been extended 30 days since the end of the epidemic was declared, so not from today or from the moment of adoption of the law, but when the Minister of Health declared the end of the epidemic since then this count is 30 days. I'd like it to be, as soon as possible, but at this point no one knows when that day is, when he'll declare the end of the epidemic. It will depend, of course, on the development of the situation. As far as hunting is concerned, we have had some enquiries, however, I must say, the epidemiological profession at this point is that hunting is not desirable because it poses an epidemiological risk, especially since hunting in Croatia, and not only in Croatia is not only hunting but it includes a series of activities before and after hunting where it would be difficult to maintain a favourable epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197216	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. No more replicas so you can go to your place. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197217	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, now, of course, in our debates, we will start from the content itself, so perhaps here is the Minister of what he hears, and what is not sure to be passed on to him, we will be the issue of the scope of the changes that have been made. Here we looked at, of course, the possibility of a delay, we'll welcome, I believe we'll all say it's reasonable, but in the extent that we've been looking for, there were possibilities of solidarity with the whole, the whole situation where we're in, where it's said, it's going to cut everything that's possible. So I'm going to ask you a question, did the proposals of these laws cut everything that could? We also have the price of issuing documents that have been in place since 2014, '15. years, so here, correct me if I'm wrong, that's when they're determined. Now, is there room to do something about this? Whether the debate at the time was for identity cards when they were introduced with an electronic chip, so 79 and a half kuna was the subject of debate, I didn't see what it was to calculate, which is the price of making the document itself, and finally whether there is now a space where something could be done and that, at least for a time in this area, we say here, we release the citizens of one part of the obligation at the moment when it's the hardest for them. I'm going to ask each other another question about IDs, and that's an opportunity to deliver something, as well as passports. So it stands out this way that the fee of 30 kuna is for the delivery of the passport to the address of the residence or residence in the event of a request by a citizen. Does it really cost 30 kuna, given the quantity it's certain that the MUP can organize a much more favourable delivery. If the online sales chain organizes for significantly less amounts and I believe that there might be space here because here we had some time ago an amendment to the laws where the funds for, collected funds for making cards for agricultural producers which they prove to be qualified to handle pesticides that charge 30 kuna suddenly become free funds. The government has proposed an amendment allowing these funds to be spent on other purposes. If a farmer pays that card 30 kuna for its production and then remains an surplus of funds then I ask you how much it costs to make a card, it's the real cost of costing. Is someone, is someone actually going to have a little earring, and then ask a similar question for this delivery, at which price, here I will say an example of Croatian post office can deliver a card. If we're saying everything now, so here's the government brought it to work the Internet portal for the sale of products, so let's go, digitize ourselves as a society whether 30 kuna is appropriate or can be significantly lower. We think it can be significantly lower at the club. I also noticed a detail relating to the question of passports, which is that their validity is being extended. The only thing I haven't noticed in this proposal is how it's aligned with other countries, because the passport is a document that travels to a foreign country. What has been the practice so far was that when you come to the border and find that your document expired, they practically treated you as an attempt to enter the country illegally. Is it possible in any other country now with a passport that pointed out the date, which we will give this extension a new legitimacy, to enter any other country. Most countries, as well as the Republic of Croatia, and this also stands on the Ministry's pages, stipulates that the passport should be worth at least 3 months or some other period.../incomprehensible/... from the moment that it would end up in that country. For example. BiH wrote a foreigner who intends to exercise the right to stay in BiH temporarily must enter with a passport whose importance is at least 3 months longer than the period on which it intends to request the approval of a temporary stay. So, by extending the passport, do we achieve any goal and that's the key question. I understand when there is a humanitarian part of the return of our citizens to the Republic of Croatia, but there is also consular representations can react quickly, so if we have the opportunity to speed up the process which is particularly charged with the speedy issue of documents, of course for Croatian citizens it should provide it at a regular price in this time, because it would certainly be inappropriate if we want to return one of our citizens back to the Republic where he will meet both the measures of isolation and actually help all those who have found themselves in this situation that now issue documents is a priority and should not create perhaps conditions as they have been. In the matter of the Minister during his presentation, I have also also warned about the issue of masks, primarily those which are called protective masks not to be cottony because in the extent in which they as police officers work with citizens must have the highest quality equipment, and for such protective masks it is prescribed that the duration is practically within one day and that should be changed and it would really be large amounts so that the police do not happen to be in any form the virus transporter and because they did not have adequate equipment. We see that Austria has imposed an obligation as of April 1st that citizens, when entering the trade, even trade chains must offer them a free mask themselves, so these days it is introduced, so I would also say it is not just legal protection that needs to be carried out, but also protection in a way that protects their officers and officers precisely so that those who might be threatened to be further protected. Once again on this, this, this, the proposal of these laws, the club of the Independent List, the young will give support, but here we will ask the Ministry to consider, in further actions and precisely some of these arguments that we have cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197218	Thank you. We are going to another club of representatives, it is the club of representatives of GLAS and respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so 4 travel documents, ID and road safety laws on roads, other words of driver's license and armed papers, all situations in which documents are required and all 4 laws relate to the extension of the document during the duration of the epidemic plus 30 days after the end of the epidemic. One fusa here I have seen is now as we sit here an amendment has come, a proposal for an amendment of the HDZ Club that requires that a formulation of the declaration of the end of the epidemic, so not only the end of the epidemic, but officially, I think it's a good thing, that it should be introduced into all these laws. Therefore, it is necessary to formalise this situation not when it seems to have stopped or, rather, that it should indeed be a formulation of the official declaration of the end of the epidemic and to tie all these dates and all extensions to it. It is clear everywhere, all four laws clearly state the name of the epidemic which is therefore Covid-19, which is also important to know that all of this, all of this extension, should, therefore, be managed in all the restrictions that are introduced in principle, and will then be abolished, but be introduced specifically to this particular epidemic, not to any other monster, not to any other elemental accident, so that we know that this is strictly related to the emergency situation caused by this virus, that we are not coming into a situation that any of these things stick together and remains after this particular epidemic. The problem that counterpart Panenic has also pointed out is that these laws extend the duration of the importance of passports and ID cards, but only with them can you get out of the country, but cannot enter any country. I think it is particularly important for people living in border areas with neighbouring countries of BiH, Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro, as well as Slovenia, so people who have a need for any reason and thus organised life to have to cross the border. Now, one way to solve this is to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries or to send on the Croatian side an official note that our passports and ID cards are valid regardless of the same date, valid until the official declaration of the end of the epidemic. Because otherwise, it does not really benefit much from this extension except that when an epidemic passes, one can extend those documents without any difficulty. But at this point I think that there would be, therefore, two possible solutions, one is either to enable at least such situations in some way to extend these documents, I mean, first of all, to passports and ID cards, or to reach an agreement with at least neighbouring countries and EU countries, or to be notified by official note that our passports and identity cards with which to travel can be worth, therefore, that they are valid until the end of the epidemic. Here, that's our suggestion that this measure would have the effect that seems to be intensities in these laws and club GLAS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197220	Let's go to the third debate, SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please. You mean when you get to the end? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197221	Well, Mr. President, I thought a miracle was going to happen after several years, except for what he has introduced around the law and remains in this assembly, but apparently that this bad habit, which is not to defend those laws that he should and that the arguments continue. First of all, I'd like to say that in these laws, which clearly serve to throw dust in the eyes. Here we have heard from the people who have dealt with this and fellow Panenic said this document does absolutely nothing if it is not good. What's it worth to you to get out of the country if you can't get back into it. It can be partially updated through.../incomprehensible/... through systems, through applications and so forth, but it's not a good solution. I think it should actually point out how many of these laws serve only to pet our eyes, as we do service to our people and citizens, and they're actually completely pointless. As for the day of the end of the epidemic, I don't think it should be complicated, it began the moment he declared the Minister of Health and stopped the day he issued the same document. As for the suspensions that have been made here, okay, the validity of the driver's license, etc., but I think that much more importantly in accordance with the reasoning given, which is that the aim is to keep people away from gathering, to reduce social contacts and protect citizens, it is necessary to do the same thing that the Slovenians have done, and this is a question of suspending the obligation to carry out technical checks and prolonging the validity of traffic permits. It's a situation that we have at this point and I don't know what's more dangerous than having an unsightly vehicle that's probably technically right, but it's going to be technically right or gathering in the technical inspection stations of vehicles that threaten and those who come there for those checks, and also those who, of course, have to get out of the house even though they keep saying they stay home and those who work in such cells and have to do technical checks. Therefore, Article 256 in which this could be added without any problem now in the same way as it was resolved for the other documents. I think the damage would be less. I would also like to stress that this issue of border passes where we already see 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia has a pass. What kind of a citizen of the Republic of Croatia if you don't have a pass, it's really a shame. I think it's a situation that just shows how completely wrong it's been done. Because at the moment when you can't leave Komiža you can't go to Vis, and the Komiža pump station doesn't exist it just shows the paradox of how unable we are to make too many boundaries for certain areas. This isolated island, which is isolated by itself, we put them in a position to go to Vis, get a pass so that they can fill the fuel from Komiza ić to another municipality. When someone tells me about the border between Ružić and Drniš or a situation where a woman from the suburbs of Sinj who is 100 metres away is a self-server but is located in the Croats, she must go to Sinj to get a pass to go to that supermarket. When someone tells me it's all very expensive logic, I have to say that it's the worst threat of police officers who need to know that there are already more than 100 in self-insulation, that some are unfortunately with confirmed coronary virus, and Mr. Minister says they have protective equipment. Here, go upstairs, the officer at the entrance, at the entrance to this INA building, no gloves, no mask. I won't say the minister is lying, but go see for yourself. As for the territory I'm talking about, I think it's a complete waste of resources, and it's a complete waste of the situation and I say too many areas would have logic, half a million passes is red tape that leads us to endanger those who need to look at it all together. There's a system that can handle it, and I think it's kind of a paradox, which is that the responsibility actually lies with companies or local headquarters or state headquarters leads us to the fact that it's really going to be a shame if you don't have a pass and you can't walk around. I don't know what the objective of this measure is, but if you want to limit movement then it should be in exceptional situations and pass should be served. Today, I'm just asking you what it would look like in Zagreb, why we don't have boundaries around the neighborhoods, why you who don't live in Zagreb, think a little bit, that in Zagreb with this amount of people you have, the one who lives in Pestnica can't come to Jarun, that's a lot more citizens' concentration, etc. So I think you should think about seeing what I was talking about 10 days ago. Today we have laws on which this assembly is the most legislative body that discusses how much personal, passport, etc. will apply, which do not actually use anything, nor can you travel, nor do other countries receive you, but we do not talk about the right things. Because when someone says they won't train or intend to violate human rights, or train strictness, this is exactly strictness training. So is the law that speaks of cell phone control. Ineffective, unnecessary, and that's what we really need in this state that is extraordinary, no matter what is not declared. And should laws that restrict human rights or not be passed, this shows. Why we make these laws, and we don't have any laws to limit movement. So it's just a situation where it actually stimulates and violates self-insulation, solutions, it's strictly strict, so I'm going to call a few statements because I didn't of course start this with what should be common, thanks to everyone. Of course, thanks to all who do their job, I congratulate them on that, and I especially congratulate those who do this by sacrificing themselves without the equipment and without what they need for the job. I get the most hurt when I hear a sick mother has to fight in more health care institutions so her child can have care. It bothers me when the doctors are called five-coloners, when Mikulić, the chief state inspector from this building, introduces a new measure, regardless of what this assembly did not talk about, and this is psychiatric treatment for those who violate self-insulation. The uniform of the minister who listened to the advice, so he took the police tags off himself, just talking about it and left only civil protection is a good thing. I even thought he'd come in uniform here today, but that's not a good message, the minister isn't the one to wear a uniform, he should wear what he needs to protect, not parade at press conferences, not around. Because the conductor of the orchestra doesn't go to the performers, he stands on stage, conducts, and it's all expensive. This way when people start and they get into everything they're told, of course you have a problem. January 9th was supposed to be a meeting, we heard here today that we're the first state to understand what's going on in China. 26.2. Minister Beros said there is no panic that it is just a more difficult form of flu. In 18.3. we were in a situation where the real crisis started, and in 19.3. we changed the Civil Protection Act, and for those measures that are being taken, I have to mention here only under the law. No one is allowed to do this under the law. So when the police break up a mass gathering of two women, middle-aged women outside the Park Hotel, that's not what we want to see. Because much worse things were, so what follows after the party, after the party is of course usually having worse consequences than I party, but we've had before the party, we're up to 18. There was a free entry from the neighbouring state and it does, of course, election in HDZ. So all these parties that were happening were a much more difficult form of breaking something that would be the rules of what people today are complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197223	You said you'd warn me for the last two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197224	I warned you, you probably didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197225	I didn't hear you, I'm sorry, but I'll follow the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197226	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and two MPs will speak, respected counterpart of Grmoja, after which fellow Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197227	Thank you, Your Honor. All the topics that are proposed here and coming to the agenda are marked by this situation, an epidemic around the coronary virus, in fact it's the only topic that dominates the public, and here we all as advocates have the need here to present the problems that citizens are talking to us about. I've seen most MPs talk about the problem of e-passes and we now have a bizarre situation that they, what, 400,000 have already been issued. I wrote on Twitter three days ago that before the government will issue 4 million e-passes than admit that such a territorial structure is an unsustainable invention. So, we now have one situation where the ministry has to think about rounding up somehow a unit, it can, I saw that there was one proposal on the territory of police stations, maybe going in that direction at this moment, and when this crisis is over, I hope it ends as soon as possible, going in the direction of territorial reconstruction, one more rational, one more rational division of the country, means where we will no longer have 500 municipalities and cities, where the counties, hopefully, will not go into some regionalisation, because we know that it will never pass, never agree to be under Split, will never agree to be under Zadar, never will Pula agree to be under Rijeka and no regionalisation comes into consideration, but to strengthen municipalities and cities and to reduce their numbers. That's the path we need to go in, and I hope this crisis is a lesson for us. It means to everyone in the government that this situation is simply unsustainable. People are coming to us, here's me from my Neretva saying this is something to do, this is ridiculous, we have a country in other municipalities and cities, in Neretva we have big problems. After all, here are the people texting me, so what our government thinks our people in the villages know how to use the system of e-citizens, does our government think that we all in the villages have the Internet this simple we live here, we're all on cell phones, we think it's a common, normal way of living, but it lives differently in the country, that, that people know very well, the people who live there. Here, they're asking me to react in that sense. They also ask me to react in terms of not having every village and I talked about it in the assembly, this bank, and some people have protected accounts, don't use cards, go to the bank to raise money, I can't get to the banks, these are things that you in the ministry should think about and suggest such solutions. I think we're like an opposition, I won't be as strict as my colleague Ostojic, there'll be time to criticise, now it's time to offer a solution. And I ask the President of the Assembly here, from this place, please continue the session HS on Wednesday, the government did not propose the Moratory Act to perform, our citizens who have been executed, who are blocked deserve a peaceful Easter and let the government propose such a law, gave MOST such a law, gave also colleagues from the SDP, you do not have to accept ours, we will gladly vote for the government's law. And finally just one more measure, I think that's very good and it needs to be taken out of this place, it's a coronary supplement. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a supplement for all those who are on the first line of defence against the coronary virus, a minimum of £2,000 directly as long as these special circumstances last, our doctors, our nurses, our maids in other hospitals that work, and their salary is less than this minimum wage that you have proposed for those who do not work at all, for our police, for our border police, for our army, for all who are at this moment at risk of being infected, but who are exposed to terrible efforts. Please, here is the President of the Assembly to present it to the Prime Minister and please continue the session on Wednesday because the government has announced, but has not yet proposed the Moratorium Act to be applied. Our citizens deserve a peaceful Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197228	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197229	Strong and strong measures in these circumstances of the crown crisis should be taken urgently in this home. Models and ways are clear, and here's what colleagues and say, the opposition supported all legislative proposals and when they were also the first set of measures, here and now we are discussing that even these proposals are that as little physical contact as possible of our people with, in police stations due to lengthened certain documents, that they will be accepted, however, we should also talk about exhausting our officers who are due to territorial reconstruction, I note... Replica, I didn't get an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Territorial means cops are tired, our citizens can't do their jobs in units like that. From Sinj to the island or to the island, Dalmatian or Croats are mentioned, where there are no basics, people don't have banks there, they don't have gas stations and they don't have other things. I can't understand how much energy is being exhausted on our officers and through these passes we haven't essentially solved the problem, but we're exhausting Croatian police officers so that this crown supplement is urgently to be given to people, both in healthcare professionals and all those who are doing work, from Croatian soldiers, police officers, all those who are going to work these Easter holidays, exhausted, for 12 hours, that this supplement is an emergency and this is the measure that we're going to encourage these people to do, not only with praises, but also respected secretaries, I think you're going to pass this on to the Minister. At this time of crisis, it is very important to protect domestic production. I asked the minister, I speak for weeks, for days that import lobbys have torn apart domestic production. At this point, people are in problems that our farmers, who have dairy production, have to spill milk. We see, now they're coming in a bunch of vervain strawberries, so where are the people going to have 500 tons of strawberries now? Where's he going with the crucible material than in the markets? And I repeat here, dear secretary, I also told the minister that there is more security for people in open markets in domestic products than in the trade chains of security measures,... Chains where the import goods are, from Italy, pomidore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which will continue to continue and now import in this crisis to sell Italian pomidores, Spanish strawberries until our products can't be exported to those countries. So he's still doing the import lobby his job undercover. I ask that markets be opened immediately, and that's what the farmers are looking for. In addition to the measures prescribed, if there is not enough in the local self-government of municipal directors, volunteers will go. You've seen cheerleading groups are ready to volunteer to maintain space and that physical distance with all measures. So which is why you're jeopardizing your domestic production, instead of saying now, let's do the processing, divide the agricultural land, flood our fields, you're sending a completely opposite message, you're buying imported goods in the trade chains. Markets, who thought of it, I can't, I'm saying it on this side, that's what farmers say, our O.P.G.s, open up urgently, save what's left of the market. Quartov markets, under everything, of course under the measures they should be, and this way you'll destroy this peasant from the village what's left. Instead of encouraging people to weaponize their fields, ornaments and plant and encourage agricultural production, because these policies have led, in this crisis it is visible what you have done in Croatia all governments. That we don't have self-sufficiency. That's from... A hectare of raw agricultural land and at this point we have no choice but to open markets, but that's what farmers call me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who have wasteful material and those who deal with dairy production and those who have fruit, vegetables. Here, I mentioned Vrgorje strawberries, where are the people with 600 tons of strawberries from Vrgorec? Where are they going with them? And Spanish will be offered on, in trade chains that are more secure here than to be made in this place. Of course, there should be precise and, of course, the biggest savings would be the senselessness of the public administration, you see, i.e. Not the public administration, but the senselessness of the organisation of the Republic of Croatia, and now if we don't see that we need to shut down the county, that they're pointless, that not the biggest money for health and education went to them and that money was directed at them. Where health care is needed, believe me, there would be eyes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197230	We are now going to discuss the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Two MPs, first a colleague, Zekanovic, and then a colleague, Glasovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197231	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We all get a lot of messages, so do I. I just got word from a Mr. Tihomir Quiet from the Dalmatian Burn who's a chronic patient and should go to Split for treatment, but there's no pass. Because of the nature of the disease, I can't even get out, so he asks me how did the state remember to send me a letter to cancel my supplementary health insurance because I didn't pay, but I didn't get it in the mail, by mail to the house, means a pass to go to Split for treatment. The second question to Minister Bozinovic, here are the ministers and other members of the Civilian Staff who have the most modern masks they say are not to be worn, and on the other hand, here is a message from the medical staff who says they cannot carry out adequate checks because there is not enough protective medical equipment or masks or jumpsuits. Like what? cancer patients who are one of the most endangered are simply not treated these days because medical workers do not have enough protective equipment. Instead of obtaining additional protective equipment for medical staff and for all those dealing with this crown crisis, we are thinking here, or not us, but the MUP is thinking about how to track citizens in Croatia, about how to track phones, about QR codes, about the location of citizens, and then we actually hear that in a very short time as many as 440 thousand passes can be issued and cannot be electronically voted. So in voting, we have one criterion, and in issuing passes and controlling citizens, we have another criterion. When we talk about this, I have to point out a particular problem, and it is a technical review or an extension of the traffic licence if it can be without a ID card and passport for a month so that the same prolonging can be done with regard to technical examination or with a traffic licence. After all, people today use cars less, so there will be no adverse consequences if this is prolonged. When we talk about tracking this crisis interestingly, we always have reports from the same countries, we have reports from Italy, we have a report from France and Spain, here and now we have a report from the United States, but we don't have reports from India, for example, we don't talk about India, we don't talk about Malaysia, we don't talk about Indonesia, we don't talk about the Philippines, we don't talk about Brazil, we don't talk about Ecuador. So I list all the countries of the third world, those undeveloped countries or countries where a large part of the population lives in conditions that are not worthy of man at all live in straws. Is there a crown crisis there? Have these countries taken action? Is he dying there or maybe he's not dying? Here I would like to hear in the media, and we hear nothing about how this crisis manifests this epidemic in third-world countries. When we talk about bad examples, no one mentions Belgium, no one mentions Holland. And when we talk about good examples, no one mentions, for example. Hungary, which is twice our size, and there are far less sick than we are. So here we have some double criteria, I have a feeling that we have in the media only those worse examples from the environment of Italy, Spain, France, UK, and while those beautiful examples and countries where the epidemic is, I'm going to tell God thanks doesn't spread, I don't know what reason or not so much as. India, Indonesia, Malaysia, they don't remember, they don't remember. Why don't we talk about these countries because these states out of a billion people have only a few thousand people and I'm curious about what measures they're taking, maybe we can apply them? And lastly, I'm going to refer again to what the minister said that we were a week early with measures or delayed with measures would have been a disaster, if we were early, there wouldn't be any infected. Why aren't we early? Maybe there's a reason for the HDZ election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197232	Here you go, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197233	Dear colleagues, President of the Parliament. Here is Croatia 5th in a row by moving to the EU of its citizens, people go out. But the difference between Poland and Romania they integrated their people into the legal economic order, it does not exist in Croatia. Israel has a return law and it's about these documents here. In 1922, there were 2% of Jews in the Palestinian administration under British rule, today there are 6.5 million. What about outside Croatia? What about the new Citizenship Act? We've been waiting here for, what, 30 years for these people to come back. Some want to go back. What about the third generation that almost forgets Croatian? It seems to me that we have become like Australians and Canadians and other Commonwealth countries who, by the age of fifty and sixty, have sought only white emigration. They wouldn't let the Chinese and the people of Africa, the Caribbean, so today the Croats are out of their homeland no matter what they say to me. This can be easily proven by these procedures, bureaucratic procedures. This bureaucracy generates corruption and we have missed the petty bureaucrats to guide our strategy on the return of Croats outside of the year. Let's say, three years for citizenship, travel administrations, etc. 270 days on average for permits. Bulgaria is ahead of us on that point. Is there even some kind of long-term strategy to bring our people back from the outside? Here are the people who started the International Court in Switzerland, who launched an action to curtail a law there to return money to those who were occupiers here until the integration of Eastern Slavonia. If they had put so much effort into returning Croats outside the country where we would be today. Syrian refugees have greater rights in Canada. Some changed ethnicity 12 times, and they got IDs. A Croat outside the country, I said six hours ago, he can neither vote, he can vote formally, there are hundreds of thousands of people registered as voters, it's his right to be taken away. He's been deprived of the right to return to take care of his grandfather, and we're still talking about democracy here. Do we even need the skills of these people? Of course it took capital when the crowd was. There were billions and billions of dollars coming here for weapons, I will mention only one small action called "The Movement for Life" that was before the war, where the Croats from Toronto sent millions of dollars for children without parents and they continued and after, during the war for orphans Croatian here. What about the SOA, the SOA found out that 40 members worked in our service against the Croatian people until '95, did they have IDs? Do they? Do the associates of the former Secret Service who worked against their people have any IDs? Yeah, they sure do. The EU's response to the crisis was mentioned by Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission President Marshall's plan, so we have half a million Croats in Germany alone, and this is our Marshall plan. How much money comes out here? What would happen to the pension system if it wasn't for those people and other systems here? But no, we ignored them, we waited another year for citizenship and we played Democrats and this cosmopolitan here. We remember the U.N. Department of Assistance and Reconstruction, '47. The year came in that "South" 416 million dollars, which today is worth 14 times more and it saved Yugoslavia from hunger. These saved us in the war of hunger, our citizens out of country, and they can't, they can't go back. What now? Here, there are some questions we don't have an answer for, I'm the answer to those IDs. The world is ruled by birth dysphoria, these certificates are changed, birth certificates. Some now plead as men and women, it's no longer a joke but a reality. These birth certificates are being changed, they want to come here in Croatia, even though we're already giving people a credit card, we want to put these cards on people who worked against.../incomprehensible/... for in the former system their code names? Some of them are sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197234	It is now the turn of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197235	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. This package of four laws should be welcomed anyway. Any move to protect our citizens from any unnecessary exposure to COVID 19 should be welcomed. But I think we should ask ourselves today as we pass this law, why, why we haven't so far been better informed and electronic teamed up and why it's even necessary to pass these laws in the 21st century, why it's not possible that all these necessary documents can't be completely removed, i.e. Run the process of extracting these documents via the Internet, via the portal e-Citizens, and why, I think, have we brought ourselves into this situation that at this time simply with a few mouse clicks we can't simply order these documents to get us home? In fact, here, the debate crystallized that actually passports and IDs would, I mean, ID cards would actually be for internal use. Why is it that such passports, unless they send notes with these countries, at least the EU, I think we will find it very difficult to cross the borders. But from what I understand, these standards are about travel documents, that this easier, return of Croats from abroad to Croatia. What I'd like to say again is that I think we should work on making that contact between citizens and, let's say, bureaucracy, that is. means the M.O.P. departments that issue such documents and, in future, reduce it because we know how much it is actually, how difficult it is when a man has to take out new documents, if he has to take out, I don't know, his ID or passport or any of those documents, he can count on it for at least one day that he'll have to spend just on standing in order and so I think this is a good opportunity for us to simply send that kind of, that way of doing these jobs to the art of history. When this set of laws was passed, I'm only sorry that it might not have thought about bringing immediate changes to the residence law in this situation. In fact, there is an institute of residence in the Housing Act, which means a shorter establishment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in places means that they do not have a permanent residence, but they have a place to stay, and it is up to the Institute to actually depend on the use of some sort of material rights that are linked to the units of local self-government. Some, once, mean that, the Institute's place of residence must be restored, so the application of the residence must be renewed every year, i.e. every year. After a year has passed. I think that once certain the number of our citizens will run out of residence, they will no longer be able to extend it, and the question is, what problems will all be faced with. In addition to these material rights that are potentially created at the level of local self-government, there may be problems if a stricter, more epidemiological measure is introduced, and let's say that they are not allowed to leave their home, no one should leave their home, then the question of where these people will go, where they will be, because then they will remain only the home address, and that residence address may no longer be returned for objective reasons. So, I think it's a very serious problem, and here's what I'm proposing to the ministry to look at it and look at the fact that it's a legal matter, and I don't think it's just a decision of the ministry to derrogate or prolong it, and I think it's going to have to be the same law here. I'd like to say, since I'm already here, they've touched here and everyone's been talking about the problem means e-pass. I also agree that this may be such a strict restriction on the individual units of local self-government in these circumstances where we have so many units of local self-government that some of them are so small that they don't have all the necessary, complete infrastructure for life where people simply have to go from one municipality to another, if anything else pours gasoline. I think you should think about finding a new, different territorial coverage that doesn't necessarily have to, or, I don't know, be in line with some previous or existing territorial structure, you can simply, I don't know, pull the border on, say, police administrations or, why not, the whole county. As far as I'm concerned, and maybe I'm wrong to understand that the problem was intrastate migration in terms of large-town migration towards smaller environments when it started talking about isolation and that it was burdening local self-government and that it was creating a certain fear of what would happen if some disease of such individuals temporarily came to their homes for rest, but this situation where people are simply distracted by their everyday life activities, I don't think it's what was meant to achieve with such measures. And I would also like to touch what many colleagues today spoke about the markets. I don't see why the market is more of an epidemiological threat than any major store, any chain of commerce, I don't know as much as any of you have recently been in one of the major sales chains in the store, and outside you're waiting for some time in order, this line that's being created outside the store, sometimes people stick to the prescribed space, sometimes not, once you get inside, so it's kind of an impression that people don't fully respect that 2m gap, possibly when you're waiting on the register, you're driving the slalom between other people and they're all trying to get away with each other, but with more or less success, and there's still a closed space. If the markets were to get better, we're talking about open-air sales here, so there's still a slightly smaller possibility of transmission and in some slightly better-controlled circumstances I think it might work, and it's not a waste and the fact that the closure of the market is going to cause us a lot of suffering from the OPGs and our domestic farmers. There, the HNS Club will certainly support these four laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197236	We are now going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the two representatives will also speak, the first colleague is Žagar, after him, a colleague of Orepic, and you will have a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197237	Thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We mostly work in the Republic of Croatia, our systems operate the truth is many times we don't know how actually. Our health system, which has endured the greatest burden and has largely proved to be quite successful in the struggle with a vicious epidemic in the sense that we do not have the exponential growth of this disease, so this system has been created long ago, with all its flaws it has managed to maintain this level of health care in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? We have a central office for digital society. Many of us and MPs today even though we had some reports at plenary sessions in HS, we don't really know what this office is doing and what it has done besides digitising existing documents. And everything that we haven't done so far is now going to be charged, so I'm not surprised by this package of laws that actually allows for the extension of the validity of certain documents, if nothing else for citizens to pay the fine because their document is expired. Like what? if the person has expired not to pay 500,00 kn, to allow them to use it until this danger passes because they do not have to physically go to the police station to extend that document because we are still a country of counters and seals even though we intend to stop being. For illustration, the town of Bokaana in the municipality of Voćin is only a few kilometers away from the central town of Voćina. Do you know how many letters he travels from Voćin to Bokana? Eight days, you heard right, eight days. HP, what the state orders services from HP, a third of these services are sent to send letters between individual state bodies, so, then these letters physically go. So we have to admit that in this area we haven't done anything, we can't say anything, something's done, but we haven't done enough anyway. And that's why it's not surprising, and this one's talking about the pass, March 23rd, the minister, excuse me, secretary of state, has made a decision to ban the movement outside of the place of residence and residence, keep an eye out. It was later interpreted as not referring to the municipality's border, but why not write the municipalities and not the places. In the Republic of Croatia we have 128 cities, 428 municipalities and 6756 towns, settlements. So it was very clear in the headquarters's decision that the pass refers to leaving the place of residence, 6756. Well, let's not be surprised now, as it's said, as a chickenworm, that we have so many passes. Civil headquarters was supposed to sit with, always, always saying government doesn't do that. We have a 555+1 unit of local self-government, so let's sit down with these people, organize the Republic of Croatia. It could've been done, Art. 54. The Law on Local Self-Government states that more municipalities can establish a common body, so more municipalities and cities could establish a joint headquarters, so that the headquarters would issue passes for leaving the area. Territorial reconstruction is certainly a subject to think about, but it's something else. This could have been solved in a very, very appropriate and to say, a reasonable way and today we wouldn't have these problems, which we have because we're really being called by citizens. I've been reprimanded several times as an advocate and said well because you represent our citizens, so what do we do, we don't have a butcher's shop, we don't have, and the post office is now closed in these times, they don't have people, schools stop, so people no longer have anything in their place where, where they live, they have to leave that place, and accuse them of being, that they're undisciplined because they're looking for a pass, it's not good at all. So this set of laws will certainly be supported because it must be made possible for citizens to have their documents valid in this way so that they do not pay the fine and that they can continue to function normally, but in the future we should definitely think about, that these things, and we have the possibility of simply being in such a bureaucratized country as we are, that this is no longer happening, that we really reduce that red tape to a smaller measure, which we can do. And one more thing, Secretary of State, very important. In these large numbers of headquarters that people do today, they do serious work, hard work. There are many members of Civil Protection whether they are from DVD or they are members of the Civil Protection themselves, who are very valuable now doing the job, and many of them themselves are unemployed. Think about giving them some compensation, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197238	We continue with the debate that is divided, the next one is Orepic. Here's a colleague of mine. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197239	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I want to take the opportunity and say it's okay when we meet our citizens in this way to allow them to solve problems in a simpler way that means this situation. But we're in this situation because we've been passing this law that we're now supplementing in a hasty procedure when it shouldn't have gone in a hurry procedure. If we hadn't gone through an emergency procedure, we'd have thought about that law, we'd assume all the variations, and we'd have assumed a solution to what to do in extraordinary situations like the one we're dealing with. I insist that we must be legalists, we must respect the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, the fact is that we are in a state of emergency and we have to declare it, it involves this House of the High in decision-making processes in this crisis situation. It's a key thing to say that we justify why we're even sitting in this hall or any other hall where we're sitting. The key thing is to bring reality into line with the normative. Now here's a banana example. Minister of Health based on the Law on the Protection of Publicity, Art. The 47th is the only one who can make a decision on quarantine to express myself, i.e. restrictions on movement, etc. What's happening to us, but that law means compensation. If we knew that, we wouldn't suggest some sort of crown fee or I don't know what other fees, but the minister is obliged or has the possibility to lay down the amount of compensation already provided under the law under that law. Unbelievable, and we bring a restriction on movement under the Civil Protection Act. The 22nd point, which in any sentence at all, does not speak in a sentence about a situation that involves infectious diseases, protection from infectious disease, or this situation where we are. So that's our absolute discrepancy with the laws that exist that I can't even read, obviously as if we don't know. Here, I'm going to ask a few simple questions, which law are prescribed and what measures to disobey a decision to ban movement without a pass, what law does that make? From everything suggested to conclude that somehow on the back of this crisis it wants to profit in another direction. Can we conclude and guess now? I know the heresy is now attacking the Civil Protection Command because if we can't, we should applaud. We will not applaud where we should not applaud, there have been much worse situations, much worse situations where the law was respected, where the state was respected. If the movement is limited, it shall be based on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The 47th is the minister of health who is obliged to deliver and compensation according to that, the amount of compensation, of course, in agreement with the finance minister in line with the possibilities. A whole series of these issues stemming from this illegal act, this unconstitutional act concludes that the HDZ has set out in pre-campion, pre-electional pre-camping, bringing such populist measures that suit a large number of inhabitants, who can read good intentions, etc. It's the only conclusion. So there's no stopping to conclude something rational except for something like that because we have the basis for existing laws on measures that we insist on looking for, we're passing some weird laws, laws on the law. Please, this is a crisis situation let's commit ourselves to making an emergency situation, Parliament is a place of obligation and duty to participate in decision-making processes when these circumstances are in the state and it must be respected and maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197240	Thank you, too. I'd like a little intervention before the final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The last debate is on behalf of the club of MPs is a debate by fellow Sanader in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Secretary of State, all your colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also taking this opportunity primarily to thank all those who are working on this crisis today, all healthcare professionals, all our officers, all our firefighters, as well as all the members of the Staff who report us daily, and are working on these problems permanently. Here is a set of 4 laws, 4 interventions in a legislative framework that needs to be dealt with well this issue and ID cards and driver's licenses and passports and armed papers means all of those documents that many of us have, many of us, the driver's passport and some 100,000 Croatian hunters' licenses, so these are certainly important documents to keep in mind that so many people and here if we have seen the record that some 500,000 such documents are issued annually then we know how much of the need to intervene and that this legislative framework has intervened through these 4 laws for these 4 important documents to protect the primary meaning, these are also all the speakers of my predecessors said to protect our fellow citizens and to reduce this social contact which is most crucial in this issue of transmission of the virus that can be most dangerous in this social contact. The HDZ Club here, we heard from one of the previous speakers gave another one, asked for another additional clarification through the amendment where we wanted, so that no different interpretations would occur, and these four laws, to be put here not to end the epidemic, but to declare the end of the epidemic, not to cease the epidemic, but to cease the end of the epidemic, so that it was a clear formulation, although alone in the law for all four laws, it was clearly defined that these decisions and this legislative intervention were only valid during the epidemic, or 30 days behind. So, I think this was commendable and necessary and good to react in such a way that it did not come into any doubt about this situation. Here it is also, said a few things that might well be looked at, the question perhaps even some other activities or some other documents or other obligations that our citizens have, and when they need to go to places where more people are gathering. Surely it's worth the discussion to see this matter of technical examination, but I think that, personally, I think it's very questionable to question our means of transport and our vehicles and to leave the possibility that a vehicle is technically incorrect because it threatens, again, a large number of people, although today it's a time of less traffic, and then maybe you can think about it and see that kind of variant, which would mean if it were made. I don't agree with the attitudes expressed here, I don't know, that cops don't have protective equipment because, here, all the checkpoints and everything where I've had contact with the cops I've seen that they're well equipped, that they have full equipment, if some cop's currently taking off gloves or a mask somewhere, then surely that's no reason to declare now that the police don't have protective equipment because it's incorrect information and certainly, I think that you here from the ministry, too, clearly, you have to confirm it, and we see it every day that it's not true. Furthermore, the issue of the start when this crisis began, here it was immediately identified, of course, with both the legal and the political game, and it was said among other things, that it was the HDZ radio, that it had its own internal elections, and therefore allowed, first I have to say here, but also for the sake of the Croatian public, that no citizen from the neighbouring country participated in our internal elections because our party has a territorial organisation, so it must be registered in the territory of Croatia. But here, in order not to be identified and not to make it false here, in the sense that the time of the start of the measures was timed, when 29.1., or 28.1. at the energy conference "Energy 2020." Prime Minister Plenkovic made a statement, then many mocked her, and said, "The health ministry is an important responsibility that we have at this time as chairman and as a country that is together with others, it must be prepared to defend itself against the widespread epidemic of coronary virus. This requires the full focus of the ministry on these topics." So that was 28.1. From 28.1. here, this statement makes it clear that we were already in intensive activity related to this preparation and action of the battle against the coronaryvirus. So they're inaccurate and malicious infor.../incomprehensible/... here are statements that say it's tied to a vote within the HDZ. Here was a good proposal from a previous colleague, that the organization was a pass. Surely, we can talk about whether there are problems, which are problems, solving problems if they have the difficulties of people on the ground, but surely one of the good measures is here proposed by Mr. Sagar, which is legally possible, that more units of local self-government, means no more settlements, but more units of local self-government under the Civil Protection Act can organise a joint civil protection headquarters. So maybe even through this debate we should invite our people on the ground to less, especially smaller municipalities, see ways and opportunities to create joint headquarters or even to bond with larger communities. This particular can be for our islands, which can then make civil protection headquarters for the entire island and thus resolve the issue of passes, but certainly citizens have shown this through polls and public statements, that these passes were made primarily to protect the public. It is not for the sake of any strictness training, nor for any abuse, but primarily for the protection of human health, and therefore for the safety of people. So it's incorrect to switch it to anything else, and it's also not right to insult people in the country and say that people in the country don't have Internet, that people in the villages don't have cell phones. We know that every fellow citizen who has a cell phone, has the internet and has the possibility of correspondence, and that the older households are helped by younger people, the Red Cross is well organized, has made himself available to the Croatian people and leaves the possibility of helping anyone, anyone who has problems, should report to their headquarters civil protection, and I am sure that human beings can solve any problem, and malevolence in these activities can be found whenever someone wants to. If the problem is to be solved, I think we must all be unique in solving the problem, that we must invest our overall strength and that is the best way to overcome this situation. On behalf of the HDZ Club, clearly, we will support all these four laws along with this amendment, which will then be evaluated by the legislator, but I think it would be good, just to find ourselves in any situation to begin to interpret when the epidemic is over and when the epidemic is stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197242	Thank you. I'd like a little intervention before the individual debate begins. The first is his colleague Pernar, a colleague of Pernar, who does not have the right to debate in accordance with Article 233. Next fellow Bulj, colleagues in accordance with Article 233 loses their right to debate. Next is colleague Angelko Striker, he's here, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197243	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues who told us two months ago that the world would be affected by an epidemic of literally biblical proportions that stopped the world, and in some countries and destroyed the hospital systems, I believe that no one would believe it. Because of the coronary epidemic, our lives have changed completely in one day, conferences, cultural sports events, travel, gatherings and gatherings are cancelled. We are daily in front of small screens, we follow the report and the instructions of the crisis headquarters, calls for action "to stay home" and publication of the media. By the way, we follow the situation in a world that's a little scary, so we read, the Italian army drives the bodies of the dead from the crown virus, the crematorium works uninterrupted New York to step up to disaster, the mayor urgently asks for 3,000 respirators and so on. When we follow such news normally to ask ourselves where is Croatia in all of this? So Croatia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the outbreak of the coronary virus and at the rate of the infected and at the rate of mortality. This means that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the crisis headquarters make decisions in good time, and all services and institutions of the police, military, firefighters, doctors, nurses, civil protection, or all involved, are doing their job well under the new circumstances. In order to continue to successfully fight the outbreak of the coronary virus, it is important that as many citizens as possible remain at home. For these very reasons, i.e. that the fewer citizens are coming to the police station counters, the government has, in an emergency parliamentary procedure, given the additions to the 4th laws proposing the extension of the duration of the documents and permits issued, 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The I.D. Act provides that the person who owns it must submit a request for a new one, for example. for the following reasons, if it has expired, if personal data on its personal name have changed, if it has changed its residence in the Republic of Croatia, if the photo on the identity card no longer corresponds to the person’s appearance, if the identity card is damaged, if it is partially or completely broken or for any other reason does not serve its purpose, it shall be possible to use it and would be considered valid for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. In order to enable our citizens currently located outside the Republic of Croatia to return i.e. the passports issued, and they expire during the duration of the epidemic, were proposed by the law supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, they would be considered valid 30 days from the end of the epidemic. The additions of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens shall allow citizens to make certain actions required within the prescribed time limits such as the submission of applications for the issue of an armed list for weapons supplied, the delivery of assurances of health skills or documents to have the technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of weapons and the knowledge of the rules relating to the possession of weapons and other weapons, and whose deadline of undertaking falls during this epidemic, to do so when conditions are obtained, or 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. The additions to the Road Safety Act also enable the use of issued driving licences, which expires for a period of longer than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. It is evident from the above that all measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including these amendments to those laws, aim to protect human lives and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that the proposals to extend the validity of the identity card, passport, driver's license and the armed list are welcome and another measure in the fight against the coronary epidemic of the virus. I'll support those laws of supplementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197244	Thank you, too, please stay and we have one replica. Here you go, fellow Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197245	You said and started your speech that someone told us two months ago, so I ask if you heard that statement mentioned by Mr. Ante Sanader of 26.1. that the prime minister then warned Croatia and the European public about the dangers of the coronary virus, and I would remind you that 19.3 was the first measure or amendment of the Civil Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197246	Let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197247	I could have said two or three months ago, but that goes to 28. January.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197248	Thank you. We no longer have replicas, please intervene and continue the debate of colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197249	Dear colleagues and colleagues here today have already been told a lot about this package of measures that we are discussing today, and how we were actually discussing on Friday a package of measures that will help the economy, this is today one package of interventions in 4 laws to even better endure this state of emergency and crisis for the sake of coronary disease, and in a way that allows our fellow citizens not to suffer certain consequences that may have or may not come into breach due to the non-expropriation of certain IDs or travel documents or a valid armed list or driver's license. I think this proposal in all 4 interventions in all four laws is justified and good for the reasons that we know ourselves and when certain regular conditions are always on the counters of our police administrations and orders for exactly the extension and identity cards and travel documents, as well as the driving licenses that most of our citizens use and have. And in order to really for these reasons of the epidemic that we have avoided such crowds on the counters, I think this kind of intervention in these laws is really justified. We ourselves know that the extension of such cards is due to two arrivals in the police administration, once for the submission of requests, and the second time for the takeover of these documents when they are finished, and not to mention that it is also necessary to have some photographs to make these documents, and given now these specific conditions in which we live when it is not possible to realize to go and maybe we don't have some spare photos at home, I think these situations are really justified, not only to protect our fellow citizens who are in this need but also employees of police administrations working on counters. Here I would really say to this occasion that we all have to think together in this situation of how to trust each other, to believe in the justification of everything we're doing in this difficult situation and really try to be responsible together to contribute in any way to stopping this disease as soon as possible and to getting all together back into the normal lifestyle that we had until a few months ago. I think that's our goal, and I really welcome every measure that will continue to be taken in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197250	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Hrvoje Zekanovic. There is no colleague of Zekanovic, in accordance with Article. 233. He loses his right to debate. The next debate is from counterpart Ostojic, so the word is spoken. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197251	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will first of all talk about the issue of residence since an invasion of islands and Dalmatia has been allowed, etc. of 7.1. Since we bring here laws on the extension of certain things, the system of residence or residence does not function. I may be wrong, but everyone has a chance to use those regular legal options, so I think it's important to inform citizens about it. Secondly, we have not reached a solution, of course, as to how the police are replacing sanitary inspectors, we have not solved the situation as far as it is concerned, I guess today that the Staff has powers, but its powers are limited, and this Parliament may be bombed by similar laws as these today, and the real crucial question is whether we welcome them. I'll indicate we're one maybe important part, and that's the issue of crisis profiting. It was promised that it would be settled, I think that these are the things that are happening at the moment because some, as always, take advantage of the situation to profit in these crises, and I think it would be very important to come before this House. We need unity, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, the situation I warned about the pass I think is perfectly clear and that it is not understanding the situation on the ground itself. I've given specific examples. As for the issues of concealment, I ask you not to understand this because I see that the heresy has turned out to say anything, but it is necessary to say when certain things you consider to be a better solution, so the better solution is to make too many zones in which it works and works. I cited this as an example of Zagreb, and I think it is very important. I repeat, the unity yes, but not in the creation of chaos because what we now have between the municipalities to create obstacles on the mountainous roads is something that is really unnecessary and extremely wasteful for those who are, in one way or another, overworked with their work, specifically speaking about police officers. I think it's also important not to be allowed because the procedure is democracy. Democracy doesn't have without procedure and what I want to send as an important message, which is at this point being ignored by the Criminal Procedure Act. I didn't talk for no reason about police officers being burdened by having to do video shoots and stuff, that's when the law was, of course, rejected. And today we have a situation that everything that's done in these conscious conversations won't be used in a variant when it comes to the DORH for reasons you didn't want to accept the situation then, which is that the police can't do it at all times and in every way. And it will fall because such things no one has the right of course to suspend the Code of Criminal Procedure or ignore it. Let's also not embellish reality. In the center of the town of Kvatric, a student lost one thing, stealing. The presence of the police can't just be in the center, don't let what we know happens at this point. In Chucher, people guard their village at night, even with motor saws if necessary, this country cannot afford it. And I think it's very important that we don't embellish things but to do them in a way, which is true, the unity that, all of us, help, do everything to protect each other, but don't forget that there's a field. I just want to send a message, this isn't a competition in that when someone said something, I listed the exact dates. But I must say that the issue of reacting HS to the defence of democracy in the situation that we are the ones who have to protect the most procedure of that phalling must not be and the headquarters has no authority to replace the parliament and it must not happen in any case. If you need to be here every day, make those decisions, if you haven't already accepted that this extraordinary situation is also something that could be applied and a different article of the Constitution, I want to say for my part, we also said, support, yes, but not in creating chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197252	Thank you. Stay here, have one replica, here's your colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197253	A colleague Ostojić, not to mention important things, is one of the important things and that citizens have generally listened to the recommendation "stay home" and they need a big thank you. And when they need to walk on a promenade or a mountain path, it's limited to them, and even the police act. I think it's too much and we don't need it, and on the other hand we're coming to the Republic of Croatia our fellow citizens, but we see even strangers coming to us catamarans yesterday in Zadar and they're going to be sent to self-insulation after taking the wipe. Do you think this should have been more severed and quarantined, thus preventing the spread of the infection in the Republic of Croatia because citizens are solidarity with each other, being safe, guarding each other, and coming at us with danger from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197255	1.4. We had 3467 people who were violating self-insulation, and the numbers were shrinking. But I can't answer that. However, a much bigger problem is that it cannot even answer your headquarters. To my question from a month ago whether to wear a mask or not, to this day we still don't know the answer. So when someone tells me that people are protected from wearing masks and gloves then let me know if it's necessary for us all to have or not, and that's what people are looking for and what they need, and for everything else they will answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197256	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, a small, little intervention after counterpart Ostojić, colleague Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197257	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and fellow MPs. The law's intensities are good, but I don't know if I'm going to vote for him. I mean, I'm in a big dilemma. Much more difficult restrictions and things applied to a large number of Croatian citizens have been taken by the Civil Protection Staff, and then for a small administrative measure that actually helps citizens, the decision of the assembly is sought. And why couldn't this technical measure be brought by the Civil Protection Staff? We both know that those measures that are now in force, which have been adopted by the Civil Protection Staff, which constitute restrictions on the rights of the Constitution, restrictions on citizens of the rights of the Constitution, should also not have brought about a staff but a council, either in the worst case, the Government or the Ministers of Health, by virtue of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Why am I saying that? So, for the fourth time from this booth, I will call for a decision to ban leaving the place of residence, to be corrected in a way that areas that are not allowed to leave to be in line with the former territorial system, not with the current one, not because the former system is territorially better, perhaps, but that is not important at the moment, but because these areas are defined as areas where every citizen in that area can exercise some of his own rights. For example, on the island of Brac we have 3 gas stations, and 8 municipalities, we have 3 malls located in one unit of local self-government. The island is usually almost isolated because it's very hard to get on a ferry and there's not one infected, the number of people in self-insulation, I think, is now one-digit. In fact, I no longer see the need for any restrictions that we have in the rest of the Republic of Croatia to be present more on the islands. So you can't come to us, no one's infected, here's the people in self-insulation, and then you can think that the restrictions that are justified are still in other parts of the Republic, they're being abolished. For example, there is a procession behind the cross on the island of Hvar on a big Thursday. In order for it to even be held in this narrow form, which is with 5 to 10 people in the procession, they need to win a pass because they pass through the municipality of Jelsa and the town of Stari Grad in two, in two parishes located there. That's also absurd. Therefore, my appeal is again that these areas where they are not allowed to leave without a pass to, to be corrected in a way that they are the territories of former municipalities. What Mr. Sanader just said in, in his debate on behalf of the club, if I get it right, he supports that intensity, if I didn't get it right, we'll correct it in a replica or in an individual debate, but that's to be corrected. Because still if we were to bring all the counties together, then no, when, if we put that county that can't be left, the first one would still be twice as small as the City of Zagreb, which, with 800,000 inhabitants, represents one area that shouldn't be abandoned. Therefore, the decision as is now written and applied is an disproportionate restriction on the right of citizens to move, especially from smaller backgrounds. Thus, it is one discrimination based on a place of residence that is not proportionate to the danger that is removed by that decision. So the village of 100 inhabitants and the city of 800 000 inhabitants is far greater than the spread of the infection in the city of 800 000 people, so there are no restrictions, and there are restrictions between two villages with 100 and 500 inhabitants because there is an administrative border between them of a municipality, and there is an area which the state authorities recognise as unique because most of the state institutions are set up so that there is one facility by former municipalities. The other thing is, the second thing is the current non-application of the Law on residence and residence of citizens about not being able to apply or extend residence. So some citizens did not find themselves guilty of a situation that could be considered semi-legal. So before the decision takes effect on the ban on leaving the place of residence or permanent residence has gone somewhere, we would like to legalise that status, and I cannot apply for a residence where they are now. And that way, and that would be useful, the state would at least have the data of how many people there are right now, and then it could possibly adapt to some of the health and other services that could be done in that area. I have some ideas so we can work this out, but I don't have time to tell them anymore, so I'm going to add the written discussion to the secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197258	Thank you. Please stay here, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197259	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Bauk, here's a chance to extend the debate further. In fact, when you talk about the boundaries of areas that citizens shouldn't leave without a pass, they could be former municipalities, I couldn't agree more. But it would be enough to send the Staff or the Government now to the units of local self-government a memo in which they will return back to the reasonable limits. The local administration units will do so within two hours, send which is too much of an area within which it cannot move without the citizens' pass. And with you, I agree, there are municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that are small municipalities, even more municipalities if we say the entire former municipality of Podravska Slatina we combine into one whole there are no more than 20 and some thousand inhabitants. So these are things that can be resolved to benefit the citizens, and ultimately security would be respected because there would be no danger to the threat of the population from the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197260	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197261	Thank you. So I noticed that as soon as that decision was made to make these more logical areas the intensity of the decision would remain the same, only there would be no more 500,000 e-passes but there would be maybe 50,000 e-passes. I will ask the Minister of Administration how many passes apply to areas of former municipalities which should then no longer issue passes for that number of citizens. I have to say it myself, I don't think this is why we should change the territorial structure. So the territorial structure usually needs to function under normal circumstances, it's not a good state of emergency to use to change regular things. So it's not freedom of movement that should be limited in a normal situation. So that's one instinct. The local headquarters might do it, but why take responsibility for themselves because everything's fine until it's first infected, and then when it's first infected, they'll ask the local headquarters why you did it. So it is better to make a decision centralised and that local headquarters apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197262	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras. A colleague of Maras doesn't have an article. 233. He loses his right to debate. We continue with an individual debate, the last reported debate within the time foreseen to report the debate is a debate from counterpart Ante Sanader. Here's your colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197263	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I agree with what Mr. Sagar said, and Mr. Bauk, it is clear that these are situations where we need to find the best forms of how the system will work. No one's desire nor the sense of making some kind of strict measure that will be the purpose of who? You're on your own. So the meaning and desire and purpose of all the measures being taken is to protect the public, human health comes first. It's the only meaning, the only interest and the only reason why all these measures are being taken. I think it's clear to all of us that every benevolent accepts it because it's the fate of all of us, the health of all of us. And just being unreasonable wouldn't accept everything that's reasonable. And the headquarters and all those who eventually make such decisions and the local headquarters will always accept every good idea, no one was born smart. So today we're making changes to the law, four laws, why don't we bring something new tomorrow if we see that something doesn't work in the field and in life. So there are solutions, there are possibilities of this kind of joint headquarters. It could be the headquarters of a big city with a smaller city, just taking into account what Bauk said, that these measures don't bring new infections then it'll be a problem, and that's not a wish to anyone. And in that sense I was saying we need to be unique, these aren't things where we need to compete who's smarter than we have to look together for the best solutions like in any crisis, any disaster. I've had a lot of experience with fires and big fires and catastrophic situations and we've never had a fight over solving problems. Every normal accepts all good suggestions, all good remarks, and so does headquarters. And today's debate should be a message to the headquarters for good remarks. We're unfortunately talking a little bit about these laws, these four legal solutions are they well written, we don't have that practical thing to say, but we have what we're saying out of life. What we get every day, many of you come across people from the field, your fellow citizens come to you, acquaintances come forward and say something doesn't work, something needs to be done. Here, so I believe and I'm sure, and I know people who work at headquarters that everyone will be well-intentioned to accept all the good suggestions and ideas. And in that sense, let our debate go today. Here I'd like to use this last minute of debate to say a few words about firefighters because here I am daily with my firefighters on the ground, we don't have a special headquarters we're part of a normal total headquarters, but here's correct for the sake of the citizen to know that the activities that the firefighters are doing with this regular fire extinguishing here yesterday we had, for example. 61 fires of open space throughout Croatia. There wasn't a single disaster, but yesterday they were working canaders, just for the record. And here's like an appeal to fellow citizens, maybe some people use this situation a little bit and go into the field, which they can go won't get infected, but to make sure they don't start and do something that can cause a fire and then lead the firefighters into a commitment to go to the intervention, and then that makes it possible for firemen to get infected. But well, thank God there are no such contagions, firemen have a system, well organized, they have protection, and so far there have been no such cases. But here's just as a note 1,500 firefighters are engaged daily on these measures against the coronary virus. So that's what they're all about and helping the police on checkpoints and transports, headquarters and everything they need, especially in smaller areas, you know that in small places there are firemen for everyone, to help with all the interventions, that these local headquarters, headquarters in small towns, they're practically the first hand, so here, here. That's a thousand and a half firefighters. In Zagreb alone, there were 2773 interventions, following the earthquake. Secondly, today 9 counties outside the city of Zagreb are helping the city of Zagreb. So 9 ladders, high scales from 9 counties are now in Zagreb and helping, and before that was 6 in the last shift. So they work actively, the fire department acts as one system throughout Croatia, and it is now seen in this situation, here, I welcome all my firefighters, thank them and support for their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197264	Please stay, we have two replicas here. First up, he's a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197265	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sanader, it is an ideal opportunity to show unity in a replica like this. So, as far as decision-making is concerned... Will you just give me back some time? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, as far as decision-making is concerned, I think it's a good thing that there is a body that can make a decision that would come into effect immediately in a situation like this. I'm not sure it should be the Civil Protection Staff, I think it's better to be the Government and then, in one reasonable time, to come to the confirmation of democratically elected bodies in whose authority it is, such as the Parliament. My message to the citizens is, respect the decisions of the Staff, the Government, the laws, but continue to criticize them after you respect them and spend them because they can be better. It's democracy. So this, too, we've been proposing for some time to bring these areas into line with life situations, and so let it be done, after 2 weeks, that this measure has been adopted and that it's obviously in the number of infected, what's being published, and it's given some results. This is my humble, modest contribution to unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197266	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197267	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. Well, that's exactly what I said in my debate, and this debate today is our chance to make our remarks about what we see, what life brings us, what our voters, our citizens, our people, our locals, the locals, who we have contact with, our fellow citizens, and no one is opposed to it. Yes, of course. And then we suggest it to the Chief of Staff. Here, from today's debate, all this good we've heard that, we have the opportunity to improve the system, we suggest it to the Staff, if the Headquarters wouldn't accept it, then we could talk about the headquarters usurping power, but look. The headquarters must function, in crisis situations you can't wait for some, it's like a war, you can't wait for some decisions for a long time, decisions have to be made, and a report is submitted to the government and the Parliament here. Clearly, there is no alternative, democracy has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197268	Last line, here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197269	Thank you, dear colleague Sanader. Let's just point it out one more time. So, when we criticise these measures, that doesn't apply to it, nor do we think the intensity was the Staff that, as you say, usurped power. Everyone in this serious situation, the message of the Staff, with this restriction of movement was to the citizens, that the situation is extremely serious and that any unnecessary movement of the population should be prevented. But what citizens from the field tell us is that there are also victims of those who need to, who need to move. So, we need to keep that unnecessary movement to a minimum, but we can't disable the necessary movement, so go to a doctor, to a pharmacy, to a butcher shop or somewhere where people need supplies. Although it can be said that people can go, to them, many of them create significant problems, and because of this, these Staffs, in fact these measures should be adapted to the lives of the population, and I especially join you in thanking all firefighters in many small municipalities, DVDs are the ones who have put up with the great burden of the Staff itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197270	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197271	I don't think there are any municipalities that don't have a home of health or a hospital, a health care facility. But if there are such, then there should be, people from that field warn it and it has to be solved, and then when he comes to his primary health care doctor, if he guides him further into hospital treatment, so that manual is a pass that a man can pass there. No one's unreasonable, there's no, there's no robots, there's live people standing there. And I've witnessed it, I've been with my firemen there at the checkpoints, and people have understanding, there's no such problem. But if there are any such problems, then it is necessary to clearly warn and send such, such a remark, here are our representatives, our Staff, if the Staff will not bring it out here publicly, but I doubt there are such ones in the Staffs, and this state and the county, and especially the city and municipal, there are reasonable people who solve the problem and whose task it is. So I believe that if there are such things, let me know where, which we'll sort out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197272	Thank you. I'm asking for an intervention. Here you go. You may, Comrade Maras, be my guest. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I beg you, since this isn't the first time, these are spé.../incomprehensible/... so the Rules of Procedure has been injured in terms of holding a session, the very way we're working now is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but there was a deal between clubs at the Bureau of Parliament. What I would ask you, since we can't be present in the hall, to try to take care of that the MPs who checked in here, but that moment weren't inside and it's not happening to me right now, it's the first time that I'm not here, and here I've been out a little bit, so I came back, to allow people to argue if they're in the hall, and right now they're not in, if they're in The building, and they're not in the hall right now. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Here, I'll ask, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197274	I'll ask professional services to see who's here, who's not. I can't pay you back because I took your word. [[Intruder Maras: Yes, I ask you to return the word to me.]] Thank you. We're moving on. [[And why did you take my word for it?]] All right, please, colleague Maras, let's get on with the final... [[I've been outside the hall.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197275	I mean, don't just do the form of the Croatian Parliament. So we're sitting here, we should be able to argue. If it's not the conditions for us to work, don't work, but don't work just to form a session of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197276	We don't work for form. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197277	Thank you. She is the same business base as her colleagues, Maras, and you yourself and Mr. Sanader, the vice president of the Parliament are witnessing that I am at the session of the Parliament's presidency, which was held the first day we started here to discuss, asked that, not to apply a strict provision on the loss of words when there is no one in the hall because physically cannot be in the hall. Then I remained misunderstood, and only in this debate, Mr. Zekanovic, Mr. Bulj, Mr. Maras and Mr. Pernar, whom I didn't see here, and the three of them I saw lost the right to speak because of these restrictions could not be in the hall. I think it's a disproportionate sanction and that in the future, if we stay here, it should be corrected just like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197278	Here's a thank you in the future we'll correct that. Here's my colleague Ostojić, final. I'm going to ask professional services to inform agents who are outside who have no other way of informing. Thank you. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197279	And here's exactly what we're going to do to show that constructiveness again is to adapt to these opportunities. We haven't talked about the replica for no reason because it wasn't even a deal, and I'm going to repeat it again, the deal can't be an excuse to derrogate and move the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So please make sure you change that. As for the areas of too many areas and everything else, 10 days ago there was a debate here and I was speaking on behalf of the club and I was just saying that the question of a pass is not a good solution that they need too many borders, and I even suggested what here today I hope they will hear the headquarters, which is the territory of the former municipalities would be a logical solution and would not happen these absurds, which is that people in 6 local self-government units have to ask permission to go to a gas station to get back to a place where they normally have a place of residence. Also in the closing word, everything is intended to help constructively and I hope that they will listen to these very messages, then there was a sentence, and that is to use the experience of Lovran Municipality that took a small company from Bakar that then solved the issue of electronic passes, before that we had a rush on the counters. So it's good that they heard this part get rid of electronically, but I think it's important that the variant of the pass be resolved in a better way because this way we're going to have the extremely lost resources that we really need and we need to save them at this point, first of all I'm talking about people, cops who work and who control that state. As for covering up the real situation, don't view it as something incorrect. I think it's important that the real situation is for us, and especially since we haven't been through one crisis together, regardless of political considerations, we do our best when we know what the situation is. You don't need to embellish the picture, you don't need to lead it to a situation to say it's better than what's true next, and that's so we can react correctly, I think we have to accept ourselves this way. Criticism doesn't necessarily mean criticism, criticism can be well-intentioned, I hope we understand that, and therefore it was my sentence, unity, yes, but not in the creation of chaos. Therefore, when we are faced with the situation that many of the things that in our lives are doing more today cannot exist, when the situation is that regular health care cannot work, when our citizens and citizens are threatened, we expect to adopt in this Assembly the right measures that can really help. And I want to point out, the measures are not only repressive, the protection of citizens is among other things and the protection of their human rights. It's something that's important, the moment when, I agree with my colleague Sanader who said democracy has no alternative, we must not endanger it in any way, and I think it's very important to send a message here and here as a message, and be sure that you will have neither our support but should protect democracy above all, so that we can go back to normal life after this extraordinary state that we have at this moment. Therefore, any observations to be sent are the goal, the aim is to help and make a better solution, and there is no need to worry. And as for the citizens, we must protect them all together primarily here from this House, and by measures that don't go to heart, I will repeat human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197280	Thank you. Comrade Sanader final.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197281	Clearly, I absolutely agree with the fact that democracy has no alternative, the protection of human rights has no alternative only we must first have people to protect their rights. If we don't have people, then we won't have to protect whose rights, so this is health protection, health protection is in first place right now. If we don't protect people's health, if we don't protect these people, then we won't be able to have their rights. So democracy has no alternative and human rights protection has no alternative. We can discuss some measures, if we estimate that some measures are not good then this place where we can discuss it, but we have to understand and we understand because our citizens show themselves daily by their behavior that they understand the danger, that they understand the situation we are in, that they realize that all the measures that are taken are primarily for the sake of people's health because it has no alternative. Only a healthy nation can have a future. And all that we see to potentially endanger democracy, but also human rights, then we need to talk about it publicly. But we can't take every measure if the meaning and all the most relevant experts in the world who spoke about the coronary virus about the epidemic said it was the most problematic social contact. Both the Staff and the Government and this Parliament have the responsibility to do their utmost to avoid this social contact, that it is as small as possible, to come down to the most needed measure. Again, when it comes to health, we can't say that it may have been justified if someone received a certificate for a specialist or a doctor in a hospital and then we won't let him in because of the other municipality, it was a cartoon. But we cannot, under the protection of human rights, endanger the health of our neighbours, our fellow citizens, that is where we must find the difference. I know and the greatest danger would be to compromise human rights in any way. We lived, we older bar here there are plenty of older ones living in a non-democratic system, and we know what it's like and don't God ever let it happen again. No party, no party, no government to question the threat of democracy and human rights, but we must bear in mind that we are currently in a serious epidemic situation, that serious measures must be taken, to see what is happening in our neighborhood. Some who have easily accepted what is happening have released the epidemic, today we see military trucks driving corpses. And the meaning and desire and the goal of all measures and the work of the Government and the work of the Staff and the work of this Parliament to preserve human lives. Here in this sense we have to be unique and we have to look for the best solutions and then there's no division in that business because that's the only thing that can get us to do good, that's the only reason why we're here and why people chose us. I appeal to everyone, and your behavior confirms that you understand that, and that we are all going to win this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197282	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197283	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I thank you all for your constructive discussion and your suggestions. But let me say a few words that would explain certain misunderstandings or questions that are not necessarily related to these four laws alone, but it concerns issues that she normally solves in nature. Here is the introduction of how many documents were issued last year, I will only briefly repeat, it was issued in police administrations and stations of 565,000 ID cards, 385,000 driver's licenses and 125,000 passports. So almost into the hair of a million issued documents in our police departments and stations. It is said here that for most of these documents it is necessary to come twice despite the possibilities given in recent years that for some of these documents such as the passport, such as the driver's license to submit the request by electronic means, therefore it is not to come then twice. It is also possible to change the residence by electronic means and to result in some kind of agreement, such as the consent of the landlord to apply for residence or residence, such as the consent of one parent to report a child to another parent or to give him a ID card or passport, but still, despite government efforts and resolutional ministries, the MUP, the Ministry of Administration, the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society, such requests are still subject to a smaller number of citizens by electronic means. So, despite this, in 99 police stations and 20 police administrations, so in 119 places, a million of these documents have been issued, which means in nature almost 2 million arrivals in the past year, so it's approximately all other years, and therefore these laws suggest that these documents, of which three basic documents with images that benefit us in different legal situations, will still be valid. It's not the intention that was said here, I think Mr. Sagar said, that it is here that prevents citizens from paying the fine. No, the main intention is trust in legal traffic, so the continuation of legal traffic that enables normal communication of citizens, economies that even at this time of difficult situations certain sectors, segments of society operate, to function and enable us to cope with this crisis period more easily. Of course these documents if only the Republic of Croatia recognises them will not be able to fulfill their purpose. They have already been prepared and as soon as Parliament, hopefully, votes these four amendments to the law, will go through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, diplomatic notes will be sent through our diplomatic consular representations to all countries to accept these extended documents and therefore the fact that our citizens cannot, as well as citizens of almost all other countries, replace this document in some regular, until now ordinary procedure. So also these situations of a necessary journey during this epidemic, our drivers doing a significant job supplying goods from other countries and from our producers driving them to other countries, so that they can function normally during this period. The issue of residence and residence has also been touched, and we have also considered changes to this law, you know that by decision of the Civil Protection Staff is not a possible change, it is not possible to travel except in justified cases between different places and therefore we will consider the possibility of an electronic change of residence when justified or when it also expires as these documents have expired. The residence annually, let's say the colloquial second residence reports about 140 persons and some of them, of course, in this period has expired or will expire and stay. We will consider this and, if necessary, correct that regulation. We think that these measures will bring about the possibility of legal traffic, the fluctuations of citizens to the most necessary extent that is now possible and permitted, and thus I believe that this issue and the e-prompt will be easier and more adequately solved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197284	Thank you. Please stay because we have three replicas. He is the first colleague of Ostojić, after him a colleague of Zhagar and then a colleague of Bauk. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197285	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I didn't understand whether a citizen could change his residence or not, or if it was exclusively downloaded for e-Citizens? I'm asking you this because you mentioned the decision of the Chief of Staff, there can't be a single headquarters that's the example that I'm telling you about to abolish existing legal provisions, so that's not supposed to happen. That's an example. Here I am constructively telling you that this cannot be allowed in Croatia, so you cannot lift someone's right to change their residence by decision of the Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197287	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. At this point, it is not possible to change the residence or residence because, of course, the decisions of the Staff on the restriction of movement could be disabling. However, we will work to enable, in justified cases, these changes that would not go in order to disabling the Staff's decisions on the restriction of movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197288	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197289	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. You'll have support for these measures. The general public's view is that the Staff has done a good job for the simple reason why key issues have been left to the profession instead of politicians, key issues to the profession, and that is the general public's view. And today I mentioned the Central State Office for Digital Society and there I said that most of us don't even know what he's doing, but it's not their fault. And in that case, if we leave it to the profession, there's a lot of professional people sitting in that office to let them do their job, then they probably wouldn't even have these problems today because they'd probably live up to a lot of e-documents. And finally to conclude, regardless of how the Staff has come to these powers, which is being warned by counterpart Ostojic, he is doing a good job. However, what we must think at no time can any headquarters abolish the democratic standards of society, i.e. Put the laws below your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197290	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197291	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. The government's intention to enable and encourage Croatian citizens and other foreigners who are legally staying to use electronic services and who are opening up more and more every day, therefore it is increasingly possible to request a particular document by electronic means or to give some consent as I said earlier. Staff decisions here cannot comment, but I can say that, of course, the aim of all state authorities is to facilitate these decisions of headquarters, to operate and to make it easier for society to live by these decisions which, of course, are not always easy for a number of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197292	And the last replica of your exposure to colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197293	Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you correct your statement a little bit because you just said that the headquarters has put the residence law out of force. It's usually called a coup in democratic countries, so correct it a little bit, find a better formulation. But the intensity to change the residence is not correct because in this case it would only be about changes in residence that would actually aim to bring the situation in line with what would then be written in the residence. So if someone who now has a residence in Varazdin, and now located in Virovitica changed their residence on Virovitica, there would be nothing intensifier about banning movement, however, it would be better because he from Virovitica could no longer go anywhere. So the intensity that the residence does not violate the headquarters measure does not make sense, so it does not seem logical. Someone would just put a place where he was and then he wouldn't be able to leave it by the same valid decisions of headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197295	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Any citizen may otherwise change his residence within 15 days to report it to the police office or station. We can't know whether or not someone in the last 15 days before the adoption of these measures changed residence, but you are calling for us to recognise the illegal situation from before, because we know that there are always a number of people who either from a coma or from some expectations or interest don't report their residence and residence as they should under the law. So for them, we can't change the rules now so that people like that can amnesty out of responsibility. But the longer these measures last, of course they will seek appropriate answers through laws and other regulations, the more we cannot cement. I don't remember saying that the headquarters put out the law, I don't think I said it, but if I used a similar expression that referred you to it, I'm sorry I didn't intend to say it, and I certainly didn't say put it out of force. I'm a lawyer and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197296	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, the Law on IDs, the Law on Road Safety and the Law on the acquisition and possession of arms to citizens at 13:33 p.m., and we will vote when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197297	We are now moving on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, meaning two amendments. Here you go, Mr. Katic. 1st is the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197298	The amendment of the HS Legislative Committee is accepted because it is nootechnically correcting the reference to the law as it is a provision of an article supplementing the basic regulation and not a specific provision of these amendments and additions. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197299	Sustained. The second amendment is also set out in Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197300	The amendment is accepted because it specifies the time of validity of the documents issued under the Arms Act. So, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197301	Thank you very much. And we are done with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition of weapons of citizens, amendments, with an indication of amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197302	Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 902. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. After the debate at the session, the amendments were accepted, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. Who's against it? Who's restrained? The abstention seems to me to be 3. And who's in? I find that most of the votes have been passed by the Act supplementing the Law on the acquisition of weapons of citizens. 126 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197303	We are now continuing with one item of the agenda, which is: Final proposal of the Law on the Supplements of the Agricultural Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Is the Minister of Agriculture, Ms Marija Vučković, with us, wants to give an additional explanation? If so, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197304	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MP and the gentlemen of the Assembly. Based on the Minister of Health's decision to declare an epidemic of COVID-19 diseases caused by the coronary virus, and to prevent or reduce the negative impact of the effects of the epidemic on the economy, certain measures should be implemented to mitigate the negative impact of this public health threat on the economy and on Croatian citizens as a whole. By way of measures, appropriate assistance should be provided to all sectors of the economy affected by negative impacts, especially agriculture as a strategic economic branch of the Republic of Croatia. One way to implement the measures is to enable such exceptional crisis situations to pose public health risks to the lives and health of our citizens, but also to threaten the sustainability of the economy, to threaten employment and liquidity threats to business operators carrying out the economic activity of the agricultural delay and to extend the deadlines for the implementation of recovery claims, the possibility of a respite payment and the delay of the initiation of the forced payment procedure. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Law on Agriculture need to be made to less regulatory procedures of certain legal provisions in order to comply with their proposal for measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist the Croatian economy, especially in order to ensure liquidity and employment insurance. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to supplement the Agriculture Act in the following way, in the event that a decision on the return of funds has already been issued to the user, it is proposed to ensure that, in cases and during times of force and exceptional circumstances, the Ministry of Agriculture may make a special decision on the extension of the recovery deadlines, this is proposed to amend the current Article. 144. The agricultural law. Furthermore, in the event of inability to collect the debt or when the debt is already forced to be charged, this is proposed to provide for the authorisation of the Ministry of Agriculture that, in cases of force majeure and exceptional circumstances, it may take a special decision on how to carry out the payment procedures for forced collection. And at the end of the amendments submitted by the Art. 146 of the Agricultural Act, in the event of payment of debt to wars and debt repayment delays, it is necessary to ensure the possibility for the user to submit a request to the Agency for Payments in Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development that, from the basis of the debt incurred during the implementation of the agricultural policy measures, this debt may be delayed as foreseen so far and which lasted for a maximum period of up to three years from the date on which it was due. The adoption of this Act, in line with the points of view and in the opinion of the Proposer, of reasonable reasons, is proposed by an urgent procedure, and for the implementation of these amendments to the Agricultural Act, no additional funding is necessary in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197305	Thank you. We have ten replicas on your exposure, so you can stay here, I suggest you stay here. We're going with our colleague Bull. Here you go, buddy Bull, first replica. So, fellow Bull, after that, colleague Sagar and colleague Dark Taritash and colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197306	Your Honor, Minister. These measures the Government gives are absolutely insufficient, and this crisis has shown where Croatian agriculture is located and that we are not only self-sufficient in Dalmatia as many unprocessed areas of agricultural land could feed 11 million inhabitants. In Croatia there are 400,000 hectares of agricultural land owned by the state, the law is in force for two years, absolutely nothing has been allocated. Instead of all of us together, you will have support, you share the country if local leaders and counties stop, that the oranium's warring, all of us private, 800,000 hectares are total, to dive and plant all the way to squares, we are giving measures that are superficial at this point, we are not self-sufficient. There is no more help from either the European Union or the global world. It's time to roll up the sleeves, get the hurricanes ready and plant it up to the last square.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197307	Thank you, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197308	Thank you very much. As far as the Agricultural Land Act is concerned, by the end of this week, the Ministry of Agriculture will send a proposal to the members of the commission to amend and supplement the Law which seeks to facilitate administrative procedures, under two concerns about priorities and three speed up land allocations, ensure an accelerated allocation of land and the use of abandoned areas in cases where the owner is unknown and in cases where land is on a forest economic basis which can be brought to agricultural purposes. Furthermore, as far as self-sufficiency is concerned, Croatia is rarely self-sufficient in which categories, I personally think, and I will always point out that any debate on self-sufficiency without an analysis of the productivity of Croatian agriculture is the one leading us to a further sink, and the Ministry of Agriculture continues to work on the strategy and programming independently of these measures in the same way and the same intensity as so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197309	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, here's another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197310	Dear Minister, you will have the support for these measures. I agree with my colleague Buljo, they're not enough at all, they'll need to think about other measures. What's stuck in my eye, on the Ministry's pages, is that there will be delays in paying the rent and concession. The first one seems to be a good measure. However, this measure is very dangerous. You're moving a little bit into the territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. Do you know at this point that many municipalities live right off the lease? And what's even more dangerous, that measure could put farmers in danger. It should then specify at this time what are the circumstances when a lease can be postponed or even forgiven if they cannot pay. If you postpone the lease, he will come for payment eventually, if it is until September of the month, he will arrive in the September month for payment, and there will already be a second, second, second war there in December. This should be considered so as not to endanger local self-government units, and then farmers themselves at some point that they can't pay that rent, so that they can eventually remain without that land. And I'm looking forward to this amendment to the Agricultural Land Act so you don't stop that maximum provision. which individual laws... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197311	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197312	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as regards the delay in paying the rent for agricultural land, a three-month delay from the date on which the war is due is due is due for now. The land is paid once a year, so I don't think it can start, that this provision cannot significantly affect the liquidity of local self-government units. However, the overall measures adopted by the Government are of course influencing, especially those related to income tax and local self-government units, and the Government has envisaged certain mechanisms relating to the preservation and maintenance of the liquidity of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197313	The next replica of Anka Mrak-Taritash, come in, after her colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197314	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Minister Vukkovic, so you've come here with one amendment to the law and you'll get support like we do, no matter what we're up against, all the good things we see that can help get their support. But what I'm interested in is something else entirely. So this crown has shown that surely the world, and thus the Republic of Croatia will be able to do a little bit, not only to be able but to function differently. In response, you have referred here to the strategy you are working on. You don't think that maybe the strategy should define something different, and you don't think maybe some measures should still be stepped up because you finally said that these measures will not, you don't need to secure anything in the budget. In other words, what do I mean? It seems to me that this crown has shown that when it comes to agriculture that we should perhaps forget what we had, move differently because every time we talk about the problem in agriculture, and I don't see a solution. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197315	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197316	So, as far as the strategy is concerned, I don't know how I would answer the question right now, I think it should look different. In fact, the draft strategic vision has not yet been submitted to the public with an action plan, so we will see what will be done in both sectoral and broad dialogues, so broad as they have never been so far in terms of agriculture, I guarantee you, we will see how it will be crystallized. The strategy has certainly not yet been adopted. Another question of yours regarding the impact on the state budget, that's what I said about this measure. In one and the second set, the Ministry of Agriculture brought a number of additional sectoral measures to the horizontal measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which have a significant impact on the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197317	Thank you. Next is counterpart Maras, followed by colleague Dobrović. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197318	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Minister, about this measure, I think everyone will be more or less supportive here. But what I think and what I think Croatian citizens expect, especially those who do agriculture, but this drawing about the crown, or I think our entire society should take this chance to make a particular drawing in certain things, one, agriculture is one of these. You should essentially plan more funding in the changes and additions to the budget for this year. So we have to go into food production more significantly. I don't know if that's how you think about it, whether you're looking at how to help Croatian agriculture further, in conversations with the Ministry of Finance, because now it's possible that we might have a significant share of production in the Republic of Croatia or that we're starting to replace the imports that we have all the time. One thing that's particularly interesting, it's about Zagreb's virtual salary, [[Intruder: Thank you]] One person has done more in this connection [[Intruder: Thank you]] Farmers, unfortunately than the entire ministry in this couple of weeks. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197319	Thank you, colleague Maras. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197320	I'm sorry that you think that a person has done more than the entire Ministry of Agriculture in recent years. I can only respect it, saying that I disagree and try to prove it to the general public, and I'm pretty sure that's what we're going to do. As far as the budget is concerned, we have already intervened in the budget with the support of the Assembly representatives of this HS when part of the Ministry of Agriculture's dedicated income has been re-designed and provided support for small values for micro and small entities in agriculture, the most vulnerable and most sensitive who have at least one employee. Furthermore, we have submitted to the European Commission a series of requests for re-uses that we hope will enable us, which will allow us to better and more concretely target our remaining funds, one for the provision of liquidity and employment, and two for the structural changes that you all mention here and which are very much needed for Croatian agriculture and which we and the Ministry of Agriculture recent months recognized by doing new programming [[Intruder: Thank you]] much more focused than before. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197321	Thank you. Next is counterpart Dobrovic, followed by counterpart Križanić, first is colleague Dobrovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197322	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, therefore, we all know that we live under the terms of the pandemic and under the measures introduced, the restriction of movement, the ban on outdoor sales and these measures have been introduced by the Law on the Protection of Households against Infectious Diseases. Agricultural producers are faced with many damages, so on their business due to these measures. According to that law, there is a right to compensation for damages. Have you thought about it? You and the Minister of Finance should see and consider and predict a certain fee because indeed many producers suffer serious damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197323	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197324	With our daily reactions and actions, we prove that we are thinking about every difficulty that has hit Croatian farmers. I would also like to say here that farmers are also covered by measures relating to remuneration, no more minimal than something more than contributions. And I want to say what may be unknown to the general public that these measures can be co-financed in the smaller part by the European Social Fund, but not for Croatian farmers, but the Croatian Government has also provided funds for Croatian farmers not covered by this regulation by minimum EU co-financing. The damage happens every day. There are also opportunities for placement. We, as I said, are doing certain measures, trying to give farmers financial support to maintain production, to ensure liquidity and employment, but at the same time not with a less barbecue and not with less intensity We're doing everything we can to increase our production and make it more productive and more resilient. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197325	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Križanic, followed by counterpart Vlaovic. Here's my colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197326	Dear Ministers, given this unremembered crisis that has affected Croatian agriculture and given the measures taken by the Government and related to market disturbances, the flow of goods, cattle, livestock, spring sowing and all that must not stand. I'm interested, and I know that you've taken certain measures and you from the level of the ministry unrelated to these measures of the government, can you explain to us what measures you're taking directly from the level of the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197327	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197328	As far as this Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, in the last 20 days, so we're getting on a daily basis every other day, but in principle, on a daily basis, all the information on the course of seed of all cultures, so far they're pretty neat, so far they're sown pretty well, as well as preparation for some other crops for sowing, is pretty neat. In the first set of measures on horizontal measures applicable to the agriculture and fisheries sector, the Ministry of Agriculture adopted certain measures concerning the agriculture sector, a small value support programme from our budget or dedicated resources, the intention of rerouting funds to increase support to farmers, with the prior approval of the European Commission from neutral EU funds. We also envisaged a new support programme for the fisheries sector, meeting certain requirements, with the prior approval of the European Commission concerning temporary suspensions, the establishment of a digital market, guidance... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197329	Next, thank you. You can continue, you can continue later, yes, so you can continue later.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197330	We've taken a lot of measures, just a list of measures, I'm not adding anything. So, with...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197331	Time, time, thank you. A colleague of Vlaović, and then a colleague of Lovrinović, a replica. You can answer in the replica of your colleague Vlaovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197332	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197333	Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197334	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, through all these measures foreseen by the Ministry of Agriculture, envisioned 52.5 million kuna of support for small and micro OPGs and 2.5 million kunas for the intervention purchase of milk. We at the HSS think it's too small. Do you feel the same way? Are you going to increase those funds? Because, for example, just for the flower producers who have lost their market, you've predicted one million kuna, it's not enough for six plastics to get warmed up. And I'm also asking you if you're going to arrange an intervention buy-in for a bull's-eye hero because they lost the market, too? And how will you help winemakers who have also lost their market? And what is crucial is asked by all agricultural producers, who allowed the "Food of the Earth" to go to HRT yesterday? Now that we need a lot of information from our agricultural producers, do you think we don't need a "Earth of the Earth" show? And me and the HSS are asking for the Earth Fruits show back and for our agricultural producers to get back through that show. all information on your measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197335	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197336	As regards the programme to help micro and small producers, it was planned at the time of 50 million kuna, so it was proposed worth 52.5 million kuna and eventually increased to 53 million kuna because it increased because we found an additional 500,000 kn, such time, everything is sought and invested, and it is precisely for the flowering sector. Otherwise, the flowering sector is very affected, but when we look at this measure, it's a pretty optimal allocation, given that in the Republic of Croatia, currently in the ARCOD, it's 63 exactly hectares. For winemakers and winemakers we asked for changes in the National Programme to assist the wine and wine industry. Let's first try to solve what we pay as a state, it's from the European Commission to reroute the funds, right, in order to use resources rationally, it's me and Professor. Lovrinović taught optimal resource location when I studied. Let's try it first. We also predicted 120 million kunas about flexibility for all and 130 million kuna crafts. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197337	Thank you. The next is counterpart Lovrinovic, followed by counterpart Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197338	Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, three weeks ago, I asked the prime minister, from the government, today you write to me people from the village, from the O.P.G., I asked you to open green markets and just when I heard they were going to open up, you decided to open shops around green markets. So please, here's a lot of people looking at us, so isn't it so logical that on the green market where the air circulation is, where people wear masks, those who sell gloves, to open up there, open tomorrow. All these aid measures are missed if people can't sell their goods, they're small producers. Please do it in front of them, open up the green markets tomorrow, get infected more easily in large malls, it's a matter of healthy logic. Our men are at risk. And secondly, buy all the supplies of all the goods that the agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia have and you'll do a great thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197339	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197340	As far as opening markets are concerned, I think we are witnesses from day to day how to work on markets, if I may say so facilitates the well-being of agricultural producers and consumers, because here I want to repeat in front of the entire Croatian public the opinion of HZJZ that at these moments the fresher the product, the smaller the route of delivery, the less the mediators and the better and less the risk. So it would invite all Croatian consumers to buy Croatian products. I respect your opinion, I want to assure you that every day we coordinate for hours with the National Civil Protection Centre, but we must respect the opinion and epidemiologist and try not to endanger public health and safety measures so we try to do, respect their knowledge, and together we agree together the protocol as well as the instructions on how to facilitate the ways of distribution to our agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197341	Thank you. The last replica of my colleague, Bilek, and after him, a colleague of Mader. Here's your colleague, Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197342	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. First of all, the National Minority Representatives' Club will support these measures, these amendments to the law. We appreciate all of what you are doing, although we think that these measures are really just the beginning of what is an intermediate introduction to what we can in some way and unfortunately this situation which is bad to use for the benefit of Croatian agriculture in the future, so on the other hand it is commendable and what was going on means that 60% of the products are being obtained by domestic producers. Just like your intensities regarding the opening of the green markets that we know she left the ministry towards headquarters and I am glad that in answer to my question this morning, Mr Bozinović announced exactly that. But I am curious about the intervention buying except milk, is it possible for Croatian products to enter the goods of the Republic of Croatia now, to fill them with our Croatian products to our citizens to eat our domestic Croatian products? And what is extremely important is to go directly into financing towards the Croatian farmer and better quality and even better produce our quality products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197343	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197344	Thank you very much. So as far as this intervention buy-in of milk is concerned, it's not an intervention buy-in in terms of the implementation of the Strategic Stock Act, it's an additional engagement of the Ministry of Agriculture, given that in this time, and this is expected to be up to 10.5. as a consequence of the disturbance in the dairy market, it does not go into reserves. It is already the first, first, I do not know what term to use the first part of such a measure carried out and the milk products purchased in this way in accordance with the Government's decision on the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture were supplied to all required by 20 intermediaries in the food supply chain or authorised donors. I have to admit now that I forgot the other part of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197345	All right, you'll see later. The last replica of my colleague Mader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197346	Your Honors Minister. I'm very interested in the article. The 46th century 3. For example, the debt of 15,000 kuna must be returned over a period of one year, and the debt, for example, from 15.001 kuna, can be paid back up to three years or so. 8th is also not clear on which grounds are covered by the repayment of the debt if not from the basis of the measure of agricultural policy. And another requirement asked by sports fishermen since sports fishermen pay membership fees, and sports fishing is not now able to make the membership available for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197347	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197348	So, as far as Article 3 is concerned, The proposed amendments shall be allowed independently of the amount of the debt to be extended to a period of up to three years and the maximum date on which the decision was due. As for the existence of the possibility that debt arises for others and on other grounds not only by agricultural policy measures, I have not studied it in detail, but it can indeed occur. There are certain fees, solutions that still need to be paid even though we are our farmers over the past two years from a large series of such burdens. Finally, the question of sports fishermen, I would not talk about any of the following delay measures before the third set of measures by the Government, but it certainly needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197349	Thank you. It's about the replica. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. We have 11 clubs and 13 individual debates. The first registered club is the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives and Representative Mladen Madjer. Here you go, Agent Mader. In accordance with the agreement on behalf of the clubs, the duration of the debate on behalf of the club of representatives is 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197350	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome all government measures as regards the economy as well as these measures in agriculture, but I clearly believe that they can be better and I hope that, as the Minister announced in the third set, some more measures will be taken and linked. Unfortunately, in this situation that has hit Croatia, we may be able to do some things better because the situation in agriculture is not the fault of this government that is the state of agriculture, but unfortunately all governments so far did not have much importance in the situation in agriculture. In 2002, we warned when the State Aid Act was being adopted, we warned of a series of measures that would be negative as regards the situation in agriculture after the vote of these measures in Croatia had increased by 400% since 2002, by 400% since the adoption of the measures adopted in 2002. Then we warned there about agricultural land, agricultural land that has not been solved so far. We warned of measures of support that were not good, while the division of the OPG into groups of commercial and non-commercial ones. Also, by warning of this legislation that was passed, it did not bring positive results because, note, all of these laws that we brought to support in 2002 increased our imports by 400%. We know that in 2019 we imported a billion and 200 million euros for agricultural products, that as far as imports of fruit in 2008 and 2009, 180 million US dollars of fruit are concerned. That we are 2019. 212 US dollars imported fruit into Croatia. So perhaps now, unfortunately, what has happened to us, perhaps now is the time for these negativity to improve and with a new set of measures that I hope the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture will bring, that will improve the work in agriculture and the work itself on the OPGs. In particular, you have also now announced about the rent and concession payments moratories, I think it would be good to make a decision to exempt from payment or in percentages to free the rent or concession, not only to mean 3 months delay and create a moratorium, means to go in, to the government to make a decision on, to be a 30 or 50% full exemption from paying the rent or concession. Moreover, in these measures, it may be necessary to notify farmers more specifically about the payment of the loan war by farmers. Maybe everyone doesn't even manage certain cases, so more specifically inform them that they know exactly when the delay is, how much delay because we know that they don't have monthly receipts, that these are annual receipts after sowing, after harvesting, when they make their incomes, and that they can prepare their OPGs to pay for the war. I also said on several occasions that I would appeal to the ministry and the government to pay off the rest of the incentives as soon as possible. We know that the payment deadline is 30.6. this year, but it would be good to pay off this rest of the incentives so that farmers can finish the agricultural crop. We also appeal to the government and the ministry to call a meeting of the buying wheat, barley and oil tails as soon as possible because we know that our harvest comes at 6:7 p.m. i.e., to be made with them, to make government with the Ministry of Economy some insight as much as necessary for the needs of us means the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, the population of the Republic of Croatia, how much the need for wheat, oil tail and barley are, and to simply be banned, if it is not enough, to ban the export of cereals because, God forbid, at these moments to close the borders, the question of where will be food if we imported by a billion and 400 million euros of agricultural production last year. So you should keep that in mind. Also, about the passes themselves, today we spoke in the first part of today's debate over these passes. I think for farmers these passes are really a lot and a problem because farmers from one place enter and have a country in another place and they now have to draw out passes, and they themselves go means with a tractor, go to their own field, so they don't transfer, they're not in social contact with anyone, and I think it's too much of a burden for them. As for the market, we said on several occasions today about opening markets. I don't think we should have closed the markets in the first place. Enabling in large trade chains to sell goods that are not from Croatia, that in large trade chains, not all goods, but most goods are not from Croatia, that in large trade chains it is possible, they could organize sales, and I am sure, I assure you that it is possible to do so on markets. If the communal directors could, if the Civilian Headquarters, even the firefighters could engage, the OPGs themselves would follow these measures and we must enable our farmers, our OPGs, to sell their products. Or if not, to buy out, means all product to buy out the state or buy out the big trade chains. If there is a difference in the price that trade chains have a lower price than those that require our OPGs, the state should make up for that difference to our producers. Here's one of the suggestions. We know that we're in a difficult situation, that it's not easy and this government isn't to blame for this situation in agriculture, but these are some suggestions, so I hope that in the next set of measures we have to be a little more specific, we mustn't forget our peasant because someone said that we used to be in socialism were saying that the color of a rich peasant's country. And I don't think that's a good thing, that it doesn't continue now that the state is afraid of a rich peasant tree country without a rich peasant, without food production is in big trouble after a situation like this happens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197351	Thank you. Next is counterpart Ante Pranic Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, so we are still in debate on behalf of clubs. Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197352	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow ministers. All is well until Croatia is hungry and agriculture should definitely be one of the strategic branches of the economy, and the spine and spine of that agriculture are the small farmers. I also come from a region where 450 active OPGs are located and it was never more difficult for farmers, and when we talk about the rescue of agriculture, remember that we are talking about the rescue of rural areas of Croatia and the rescue of Croatian villages. Farmers do not even know the conditions of reading, before the tourist season which is in the interest of the wider Croatian public comes one of the most important seasons, it is agrarian season. Especially in my area in the area of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding north of Croatia now comes picking strawberries. We have absolutely no instructions, nor do our farmers, how to make reading in accordance with the national headquarters's instructions at all. Distribution chains have been compromised, and most are faced with labour problems. And now that we have the example of resuscitating Croatian agriculture normally that we as a club will support these measures, but I would really like for you to come in front of us and bring a package of heavy billions of kunas, because everything is good until Croatia is hungry, and when it is hungry, it will not be able to go back and then maybe we can discuss what we could, and we haven't brought in because there is a series of illogical things that can be seen at this point. It's a good thing we have digital market offers. You know, we got like the city of 2018 for smart digitization just in terms of the market. I remember proposing such measures to some institutions, and then everyone with a skeptic watching me, and now we have the same problem with the distribution of these products. So I call on you from this stage to try to reason with Croatian mail to create special packages for the distribution of agricultural products and that these packages do not have that citizens do not have to pay fees like all other goods. Let us use the distribution chain that we currently have and which is owned by the Republic of Croatia, it is the Croatian Post Office. I would really like to see a set of measures to reduce the current VAT to re-romitarians from the existing rate of 13% to 5% for seedlings, for seeds, for fertilisers, for pesticides and other agrochemical products, perhaps it will cost the country something about reduced VAT but it will be cheaper for manufacturers and will be able to survive. I absolutely agree with you on the adoption of strategic documents, but right now we need to bring documents literally to save this poor farmer, a farmer who is not in a quarantine house, a farmer who sweats in his field, a farmer who calls me as mayor ten times a day with the fear that he will not sell those agricultural products and if the kicks of another season will not work in the field at all and as such we need to observe this programme and take measures precisely for those people to survive in that area, remain in that area. As far as producer organisations are concerned, go urgently to amend the Production Organisations Act. We today have trading chains that call on the OPGs to buy products, but what is actually done, they buy products through some sister companies, through some companies that buy after that, take or leave products from the OPGs and then as such place them in some larger trading chains because under the existing law, OPGs are difficult to unify. And normally, we should secure from national resources certain funds according to these producer organisations to encourage them at this present crucial moment. I say, every week and every two weeks that is late, it's less time to save Croatian agriculture. As for distribution centres, it's not like we're a country that can't be 300 million or 400 million secure to build a dozen distribution centres at regional level. It may essentially not be worth it economically, but now it's survival time and I'm afraid that without it, there will be an absolute collapse of a small farmer. Distribution is everyone's problem, we have the current highway, I drove from Vrgorec to Zagreb yesterday, I don't think I saw ten cars on the highway, so let's free at least the payment of the toll of the OPG in terms of their distribution, but not only their distributions, but the labour force that comes to them, and it's not in the area of that city or that municipality, and they normally pay that cost through participation in the toll itself. And speaking of labour costs, I have carefully watched what Germany does, what Austria does, what France does about labour in agriculture. They opened their own portals where they invite people to whom the state co-finances now as we co-finance, let's say, entrepreneurs where a waiter gets now I don't know 3.500,00 – £4,000,00 and normally to stand at home and he won't answer at the invitation of a farmer who offers him an additional volunteer fee on that salary. And what are we creating in this country, what paradoxical system? It means that 20, 30, 40 waiters stand at home with 4,000,00 kn co-financed by the state budget, and those poor farmers struggle and don't know how to get to the workforce that they can even turn and place at any price of their products. Please do something literally in the next 15 days, otherwise the first cultures to be read will experience absolute collapse, starting with strawberry, and everyone, everyone. Indeed, if one fundamental turn towards agriculture does not occur, I fear that our rural space of the Republic of Croatia will remain empty. The crisis will go away and stop, but when a single small farmer stops working his field, remember that next year is safe or after two years he will certainly not return to it and will normally move out of that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197353	Now here's a little intervention, and after a little intervention, a colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash, the GLAS Representatives' Club, come in. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197354	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. About two or three months ago, we would be discussing in another area and we would probably be discussing your laws and some other laws. But now we're discussing the Corona era. It's some little virus that came from somewhere in China, it seemed to us that it was very far away, then it came and destroyed the world and became a non-human we're fighting in different ways. Mr. Trump thought that when that virus crossed the ocean that he was going to be afraid that he was headed by the United States, and that's where I'm not going, and in the end it's going to turn out to be the biggest tragedy that's obviously going to pay for exactly the United States in human lives. Coronavirus, the result will be that we will have to learn to live differently and we will also have to learn to treat the economy of individual countries differently. We're already living differently. We are the land that is the land of the Mediterranean, we love to shake hands, we love each other, we love each other when we haven't seen anyone in a long time, we love each other, we don't do it anymore. We'll, we'll take care of it, we don't do it even within our own circumstances when someone comes to us eventually, we have a distance. We need to get out of this, not only have we changed in behavior and taken care of things, but we need to learn some lessons from this. Agriculture is the theme of this country. Agriculture is the topic we all discuss and debated, and some formerly convened the assembly, and others will discuss it. It seems to me that the time has come and that is why I purposely asked the Minister's question and the theme of the strategy, it seems to me that the time has come, that some of this crown has taught us that we need to have some other strategy and some other things. In doing so, I think of some, therefore, related to strategic commitments related to agriculture, but also to some actions. Now that the crown is over, we are all in the laws that we have a little bit reminded that our laws are bending, that our laws aren't flexible enough, that they might be a little bit more than a stepmom to our citizens, but that they might come out on our citizens' hands, so this change that's in the agriculture area is something that maybe we didn't need a crown to think about. Maybe we should just think about what frames we're moving in. I often know how to compare the Republic of Croatia to '68. Why '68?? We have RH tickets from the air in February '68. And it's very convenient to compare with today's cards. So, with today, you have drones, you shoot when you see '68. the land was farmed. When you look at today's maps, on many of those agricultural ornaments that were then processed along those Polish roads were roads and along the cities it was urbanized, and a terrible lot of land grew up first in shikas, different therefore, low herbs, and then a high period, high, high, tall trees, things are not 10 years old or 20 years old, things are much older. Not to say that when someone decided not to live where they could and didn't live on agriculture, they decided at the time of industrialization to go to cities and to live worse in cities than they would have lived there, so things haven't happened since yesterday. I think this crown reminded us that we were a good country that had good agriculture according to the time it was in. She reminded us of the role and importance of the state, reminded us of the role and importance of the strategy and relations towards agriculture not only to agriculture but also to livestock relations because after we passed the Homeland War and each of us were at least of our elders thought that in his working life he had passed the Homeland War so there will be no more such things as the consequences of being crowns we will only see. After the Homeland War, we had a big problem that we weren't connected in terms of infrastructure, so our power lines stayed somewhere else, so we couldn't get the power because the infrastructure went somewhere else. The consequences of the crown among other things will be to go back and think about that we cannot only survive on tourism but that we have a comparative advantage that suggests that we can develop agriculture and all those industries that are related to agriculture. We now see it on a small scale, we see that they don't make markets, we see that we supply in those stores that work and that agricultural products come from exports as much as they come, and in fact we're all aware that it's incomparably better on the Internet to come to your doorstep from an OPG or more OPG because you feel like you're helping someone, you feel like you're helping someone who lives in the same conditions in your country and through that 100 or 200 kuna you pay them, you know that he's gonna be able to do it any further. When you order, I don't know two kilos of honey from someone that you helped someone who made some money that day and could move on. That's what we need to think about. That we ourselves can help through our daily activities. But what we'd have to think about, I'm sure this is the moment where, you know what computers say when you have something like that on your computer, everything is bad for you, turn it off, wait and turn it back on. I think we should do a good analysis and all the things we've done wrong, turn off and try to do better and different. We're going to need a good agriculture strategy for that. A strategy in which Croatia must not depend on import and depend on someone else. This crisis, which now takes relatively short, doesn't last for years, it lasts relatively briefly, has shown the extent of the damage we have done in certain branches by not acting. For the simple reason that agriculture can be your driver for a lot of things. She's a trigger and a certain food industry, she's a trigger and everything. We're going to need serious drivers from this crisis. These serious drivers can't be just the tourism we rely on, so it's seen, we'll see what happens this summer and how it will be. God forbid we go through everything together and depend on autotourism, but what we need to do is make sure that when you take a picture of Croatia, you can take a drone, see how much space is unprocessed agriculturally. Croatia, therefore, has the most conservative method with 5% built area, these 5% built surfaces are all that was built, not only under buildings, but under roads and under all others, and there are 50% of the forests that were created because the forest also took over certain agricultural areas. Let's put what's agriculturally in place, let's develop on that basis. That's the point we have to get out of this crown, that's where we have to show that behind that we won't forget everything and live up to someone until a new moment, but really make sure that these moments don't happen again or that we can control them as much as we can. See, so in terms of health care, Croatia is rated to best deal with the coronary virus and is better than us Japan, behind it is Croatia. It is a tradition of the School of Public Health “Dr. Andrija Printar," we failed to destroy it. We've managed to destroy these other things. So the message that needs to be from this payphone, we will always be helping to support these laws, and it is good to support them, but the message that should always be should be thought about the day after. The day after that will come, for that day after that we must be prepared with a series of measures that we will use and use to develop agriculture. Agriculture is not our fault it is a comparative advantage we have forgotten and politically always discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197355	Thank you, please, and after the intervention, colleagues Bulj and colleagues Dobrović will share the performance and presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. First up, buddy Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197356	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers of this measure are not sufficient. We'll support it, but in agriculture it's famous. Import lobbys have been made, all policies have allowed, Croatian policies to tear up Croatian peasants, Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture. Croatia imports around EUR 3 billion of food products, never again paid for incentives, and never less was produced. We even used to mock the position of the government with the Croatian peasant so we could sign agreements with China that we would also export milk and dairy products to China. But it is also the fact that this crisis has shown and exposed all the bad policies that have been led towards the Croatian village and the Croatian peasant. Without rich villages, without rich Croatian peasants there is no rich state and this was the logic of vermin within the ministries that destroyed the Croatian village for decades, emptyed Slavonia, emptied the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar. The Croatian country, literally 2/3, is empty, we have 800,000 hectares of unprocessed land, we have the law of the minister that we passed 2 years ago, and of which it is not literally very small, nor 1% 11,000 hectares of 400,000 hectares of agricultural land. I gave you a proposal from the Minister in the procedure, you freely copy it, stop it from local leaders to mayors who have to give consent to the ministry to every school and hold anyone in the Kozarak kolo and no one gives up, and it costs a Croatian peasant. I'll give you a round of applause and support. Let's destroy Croatian orcs, give the country to the Croatian peasant, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. It is no longer a time when we can play strategy, it is not a time when we can have closed markets that the Croatian peasant must plow, that he must drink fruit. I just got a call from a man from Vrgorec who doesn't know what to do with strawberries they'll have 500 tons. Open up the markets, flood the fields and our private fields. When I saw mine not only in Slavonia, but in my Dalmatia, 200,000 acres is unprocessed land. Let's roll up the sleeves, sample the fields, turn on the local self-government, buy the fruit material, now it's planting time, and plant it in the soil in the immersion. The earth is freedom. We shot down like geese in the fog, Stjepan Radic said it was the president of the HSS. Minister, I'll be on your side, wake up from sleep, share land with the Croatian peasant right now, today, not to import three billion euros of harmful food. I gave you the law to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal, physical persons, if Hungarians don't sell, we Croats don't have any obligation either, because Europe is not equal to all of us. The land is rich, 800,000 hectares of agricultural land, clean, ecologically preserved under the weeds. You know what a fortune it is, a huge fortune. Open the markets, help the farmer, mature the fields, head of local self-government buy all the repromaterials from potatoes to everything he has, give the farmer who wants to work, turn on the machinery of your local companies. Let's destroy the country. It's a key message from the minister. Give it to the peasant at last. Why does the Ministry work nonstop for import lobbys? In the end, I would only say before my colleague Slaven Dobrovic that he grieves me when a man calls me from the Sinjsko field in the 21st century that they have no irrigation, that they have some manual channels where they won't release water. In the end, he would only wish for the minister to finally share with the Croatian peasant agricultural land with a view to coercing and buying domestic, exclusively Croatian products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197357	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197358	Thank you very much. I welcome the minister once again. So what should agriculture be for an independent and sovereign country? Definitely a portfolio of strategic importance because food is a fundamental resource, so by water, air, and is actually a prerequisite for survival. That's how it is at all times, and this apparent abundance we live in or at least we've lived in, we shouldn't confuse that truth, especially in the eyes and vision of the people who lead our country because in the time of crisis, the fact that we've just begun to be insufficient about food becomes a fundamental security issue. In the crisis this free market that is almost sacred we know that it does not work, it falls into the water as soon as it breaks down about the needs of those who sell us this goods because the question or the relationship of supply and demand is great just by regulating the relationship on the market that has very unpleasant effects when some goods disappear or not at all. According to the official state report, we know that the data on the self-sufficiency of agricultural and food products are very poor, so meat, milk, vegetables and fruits are about half or below half of self-sufficiency. Only cereals and olives are produced above the need, of course exported as surpluses, raw materials, and we import the processing by e.g. Olives have 270% self-sufficiency while oil as a food product is 60%. The crown of defeat statistics is an external trade balance on agricultural and food products, it has already been pointed out several times here, so a billion and 200 million euros is a minus difference, it is imports not covered by exports. And obviously this is about long-term problems in resors that, despite bad trends for years, are being wrongly addressed, investment is increasing, production is growing. For example, the cost of public service in agriculture has increased four times between 2004 and 2017, and we know that production has dropped. So, everything here has, irrationality, waste, guessing, conflict of interest, clientelism, etc. And what about this state of intervention today? We have a law of crisis which, of course, needs to address the emerging, emerging issues. We have three articles that practically refer exclusively to the issues of paying certain debts and liabilities. Essentially, of course it should be supported and we supported it. However, it is only right if some essential measures follow that could soon change the catastrophic state with, with the self-sufficiency of agricultural products. What about agricultural land? Shouldn't it be put into service immediately? Is it necessary to revise the lease of state agricultural land, insisting on production? Split the unused land immediately and do so without compensation to those who have kept it free for years without real production again delaying or reducing obligations. Have you detected particularly endangered points, livestock, dairy? Do cattle farmers have the advantage of renting state land or land to import animals and collect incentives without real production? Why not urgently introduce incentives for leaving every female calf in the economy? Do you intend to capture the revision of the incentive policy and tie it to production rather than to the surface? Make it easier for farmers to live and reduce uncertainty immediately, pay for their incentives within a short period of time and in full. If the inspection follows sudden and zero justified jumps in the price of repromaterials and spare parts, lack of systematic monitoring and here allows speculative price hikes, prevent it. There are a lot of possible measures for these times of crisis. We've got everything and skirt and scissors and I think we can do a lot more if we catch the systemic changes on, in the vault. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197359	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197360	What does this pay phone smell like? Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The question is, are we going to have something to eat tomorrow, that's the question people's been asking forever. This is a key issue because man has always been his primary food search, so we also share our activities in primary, secondary and tertiary activities. These primary activities include agriculture, livestock farming, warfare, any, meaning either extensive or intensive livestock farming, all of which fall within primary activities. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has long forgotten what is primary, which is secondary, which is tertiary, so we've actually moved everything into a quarterly, so we've started hiring people only where the state pays them, into the quarterly sector. So, under the authority or what's being paid out of the state budget, that's a big problem. And then we said at one point we're a free market country, we turned to the market, and we said part of the EU, a global world, and we're going to work just fine through this joint one-state association and we forgot our own production. We'll buy everything we're missing, and we won't take care of our own. It's not all that black, but it's got lots and lots of black holes. Actually I'm gonna say I was surprised by the fact that we have surpluses of agricultural products. Here, for example. We have a big problem with milk, as we said, a million liters, now that I think the monthly number that came out, so here it is, the minister, here you may later explain that it's not about surpluses. So somewhere we have a surplus, somewhere we have a deficit, but we have, we have one problem big, and that's what today the one that produces the agricultural product in the Republic has no place to place it. Croatian sovereigns were the first to point out the problem of closing markets in the Republic of Croatia, we were the first to point out. Here, now you wouldn't like to say if it was 15 days ago, but let's say 15 days ago we talked about it, as soon as we were contacted by the farmers of the City of Zagreb's agricultural products, who remained shocked, the green market was closed, and the freezer works. I know the minister's taking care of this, but the market isn't open yet. Here I am now reading the "Evening List" has announced that Minister Bozinovic, perhaps tomorrow, has announced a decision to open markets. So 15 days or already what, 20 days we've got closed markets and now after 20 days of the market, it's gonna open, but it's the wrong decision. I know that markets will open because it's only logical because the transmission of the virus is much more likely in closed spaces, in malls or in those closed facilities in the markets themselves, than the transmission is possible in the open, so the minister himself recommended that you go outside and take a walk, go to the air, but keep your social distance. So these markets can be arranged to be 3, 4, 5 meters apart between booths, between sellers and customers, and this could work or will work. So today, no matter what effort has been made to make, that these large trade chains buy Croatian products, however, what is really a fact, is really a fact, regardless of the effort and the ministry, that the large majority of products are still imported, the helmets come in convoys, go to the freezer, and these products go to the malls because it's much simpler to buy everything from one supplier at once than to look for some small suppliers now when they actually need hundreds of tons, and that should have all been done on the green market where there were buyers who circled it and placed it further towards the trade chains. So, here's if this is true and if the real markets are going to open after 20 days of closure, I welcome that measure, and if it's not true, if there is also Minister and Minister Bozinović, etc., I still think that this measure is not good. We allow all producers of Croatian agricultural products to sell their products in the safest way possible, and the safest place in the market is, of course, open with some social distance measures. I would give a clear comment here that is clear to every city, every local self-government has hundreds and hundreds of tens of community directors who are mostly doing nothing now, are mostly home, get there local self-governments give them money, so send these people to stand in the markets, let the right order, let the right order be controlled and I'm sure it will work. One more thing to remember, it's the same problem with fishing or fishing. Fishing facilities are closed facilities in the markets, but they don't work. They don't work unless they worked today, so until yesterday they didn't, specifically Sibenik, Zadar, Split don't work, did she work in Zagreb, I don't think she did and what's happening now, people do. Here, specifically in Sibenik, not only in Sibenik, but in all coastal cities, people know where the brakes will come, and then 50 people gather, and then they buy fish and then they're in social contact and then the police dissipate people. Instead of allowing people to buy fish in one common way at the fish market and I think it's the simplest and the best. So, all clear about what it's all about, the situation is such that we need to keep the virus safe, but let's still try to make the economy as much as it works, is it not working now at all or almost doesn't work and open this up at all. I just have to do one more little job, if I can work, and I'm not against it, construction sites, so buildings, so the building works, if I can work malls, for example. I don't say a single name right now, I'm not against it, and then I think it can also work in the market. Now I'm going to make a little link that's not related to this law, but I'm going to say that if there's almost 40 of us in this room with one social distance, I think that such a measure could be introduced on examples of the Holy Mass and that it could be made possible, and this is both a message and a bishop, and also a government that in this way, from two to three feet away can be maintained and sacred Masses, it's not the subject of the law, so it can be done whenever it wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197361	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Križanic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197362	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is the agricultural roofing law of each country's agricultural production. It should come from the EU's common policy guidelines, and the main act for its development is the National Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development. Since we have been talking in the strategy of agriculture and rural development for years, and we still don't have it, but here I am commending the minister she is now in construction, I appeal to the Ministry that she is being prepared as soon as possible, that we can discuss her as a complete document here in the Croatian Parliament, that building and bring her here. In fact, we know that livestock production accounts for 38% of agricultural production, and for agriculture, we like to say that it is a strategic branch of the economy. It is certain that this strategy should address the needs and quantities of the balance sheet of certain agricultural products as well as regulatory mechanisms in situations which are drastically jumping from normal to normal as this one is now. So is the direction we want to move. Of course, that's how countries do it in the environment of the so-called. The regulatory authorities shall intervene at a given time, as well as in smart countries, to ensure the self-sufficiency of basic agricultural products. This should be an argument for us to negotiate for a common agricultural policy of 2021. - 2027, but also an imperative for saving agriculture in this never-seen crisis. For example, just for the sake of protecting their agricultural production, neighbouring countries Serbia which are not EU members bring.../incomprehensible/... pig and Union meat to avoid being disturbed by the market when they have too much, while other EU member states, Austria handles this informally with the regulation of the market and the need to import by their market-accessing agency. Who's defending us in this situation now, in the crisis? No one. The livestock production is particularly sensitive, it has added value and needs to be particularly nurtured because it is a multiplier times 5 of it living both the warlord and the food industry and slaughterhouses and carriers and construction, but unfortunately it is becoming weaker. The level of resolution of such anomalies within the sector in one country should be predicted and resolved by the already designated agricultural production strategy, and not by the fact that from one year to year we sow wheat, from another corn or the like, depending on the price. In addition to the strategy, it is extremely important to provide national funds to withdraw a full envelope of EU funds for the 2021 programming period. - 2027, without it, the Agricultural Act, and these amendments to the law will not be brought to life. In particular, a large contribution and assistance to this sector was the adoption of the VAT Act, which significantly facilitated the business of farmers due to a 13% interdepartment. Of course, I have advocated less, for a greater reduction than our environment, thus making the product more accessible to the final producer, the consumer, and the producers’ liquidity-provided. An even greater contribution to the liquidity of agricultural production is this latest VAT payment decision per invoiced invoice. It's been so long. However, we are now at war with the coronary virus and now nothing is the same. The small farmers are closed markets as we have already heard, and the total livestock sector has been drastically disrupted by the market. Not only are internal intertrades, it is intertrades and the EU, but I think of the EU in particular. The harder cross-border flow of goods opens the way for speculators and large players, trade chains and large slaughterhouses to hunt in blurry and print, and this has been happening for the last 3 weeks, the Minister to know that the price of agricultural and livestock products is being printed down, not even lately does not buy cattle. It happens that on the shelves of shopping malls there are foreign goods from infected areas, and quality Croatian products remain in plastics and greenhouses because of the disturbed market, and in particular I mean vegetables and flora. There is no better situation in cattle farming where even such a difficult situation is the sale of large cattle due to disturbances in the eastern markets for small producers has further caused this difficult movement with livestock placement. That's why it happens that a long time ago a frozen horn from the outside enters the Republic of Croatia while ours is standing in stables not sold where I think of cattle. Also, the chicken from Hungary called “Koko”, the domestic chicken GMO free enters the Republic of Croatia and thus takes place on the shelf and knocks down domestic peradar production, and that chicken is neither domestic nor GMO, and the brand “Koko” is still being used, so look at everyone here, so we have “Coku” that produces domestic chickens that GMOs are free, and that's where GMOs are sold to us free in Croatia. One of the further measures for the protection of domestic production and defence against the coronal virus should, in my opinion, be quarantine ministers for 14 days for imported products, thus increasing demand for domestic goods and we would have to deal with our problem elegantly. If an intervention ransom is to be introduced, we make it possible for those who defend us to do so to everyone else. After 14 days of fresh import meat will no longer be fresh, we will buy homemade meat. I am sure that some of the measures in this set, such as the Public Procurement Act, with the advantages of domestic products, will greatly help domestic agricultural production. But not only should there be a guideline but there should be an order to all police, military, hospitals to all state institutions, but also to all those hosts we took down the VAT to buy domestic food in this crisis right now. It is also extremely important and fast and complete payment of all incentives as well as rural development measures for which the payment of funds due to liquidity in the agricultural sector should be facilitated as urgently as possible. When we talk about the Agriculture Act, it defines agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the division of agricultural policy measures to measures so-called The first pillar of direct payments and the second pillar of rural development. The obligation to enrol in the register of farmers for direct support consisting of support for extremely sensitive sectors in agriculture is laid down. So far, it's been olive oil, tobacco, dairy cows and fertilized sows. I want to say that it is very helpful for the olive oil and tobacco sector, slightly weaker in the dairy cow sector as the support for breeding pigs from the previous year until then was 530 kuna, now it comes down to Deminis support that means something to small producers and medium and large nothing. All smart countries handle it in a way that something public, something hidden, subsidizes a sow with 300 euros per stern, and I've said that behind this pay phone several times and then we Croats subsidize to a rich Irish peasant every sow for a remont every year. They strongly encourage the construction of re-procentrators, which is now an opportunity for us to raise production twice in a year with a smart policy of investment in re-centres very quickly. Subsidize the production of 40,000 sows, and next year we already have a million children, that's twice as much as now. It's a good thing we started using last year's animal welfare measures, and that's something to be commended for not doing it for long. As regards the emerging pandemic situation, the Ministry of Agriculture has already adopted a second set of measures to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic and aid to the economy, as well as agriculture. I've talked about some measures before. The Ministry of Agriculture shall, within its jurisdiction, carry out additional efforts to ensure the smooth functioning of agricultural livestock production because it is essential for the diet of the nation. I note that now more than ever it confirms my countless times spoken sentence that only agriculture cannot be on the market but is a strategic branch of the economy and that the self-sufficiency and security of domestic agricultural production is a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore welcome these amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act that the HDZ Club will support. I also thank the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Registrar for the urgent adoption of measures that will make it easier for the population to have this severe epidemic of the coronary virus, but very much help the economy and Croatian agriculture in overcoming an economic crisis that will be unremembered for our lives. Minister, it's a state of war, it's a state of war we'll all stand behind you in bringing all but all the urgent most rigorous measures possible to save domestic agriculture. It is now an opportunity to ensure that the Croatian population eats healthy domestic food, as well as to protect our agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197363	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDP's on behalf of which the respected representative, Allen Prelec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197364	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's how my colleague Križanić ended up, so I'm actually going to start. The SDP club will be for this law and I think in these difficult times we need heads together and support everything we think will be better, better for Croatian citizens, better for agriculture. And now will it be better for agriculture? The fact that we obviously need a crisis to regain consciousness, I say it from my own experience, and I live here near Zagreb, but I would say the rural environment and see that people are here now I would say three weeks how much we really have reduced movement that people have started working the country more than ever. I'd ask if we needed a real crisis to come to a sense of awareness, to get them started, if it's a fear that they won't be able to buy something at malls or at pay or it's fear that they'll pay more expensive products, I don't know, but hopefully this whole thing will move us to turn a little bit more to agriculture, to the country that we have, the one that's large, largely unworked. And when we talk about raw land, then there's really too much. I'll say most of it's private owners, but there's also a state country that's unworked. I'd love it if here and after this crisis, they say she's welcome because there's something going on in the farm because we started worrying about domestic production, about people being admitted to agriculture, at least in the garden and nearby, and so on. We'll see if that's the case. But I'd love to have a real farmer who lives off of it a little bit better and a little easier. And I will now read or quote Prime Minister and Minister Maric who have spoken like this, he says, public procurement holders will be recommended to give priority to domestic agricultural producers, especially in health, military and police sectors. This is one of the extremely strong protectionist measures that protects domestic agricultural production, particularly in the New TV interview by Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, and he also spoke about it, the measure would not have passed without a pack of the European Commission at other times, but at the time of the crown we will probably get the green light. And I'd say now, do we really need a crown to get us started? Whether or not we're gonna get our pucks from the European Commission, so if they're just pucks, I'm gonna go straight to the pucks to make our agriculture better. Do we really need trouble to put our heads together and run something? This is not a criticism of the current minister, this is not a criticism of the last minister, but of all ministers so far. We haven't done much for agriculture so far, I won't say anything, we haven't done much. With each new minister, we have new measures, we have a new flight, optimism, and the farmer is no better. You can ask that to any farmer who lives off of it, with extremes, I would say the conditions, the weather conditions that are troubles, in which to create. And then this policy has almost done nothing significant for them lately, out of taking care of agricultural land, about the state agricultural land that we've changed 15 times already, 15-16 times we've changed the Agricultural Land Act, to everything that, here it is, made by the Croatian Government or by any minister so far. It's not enough and we need to get started. I'd just mention that here in the last 4-5 years. As far as this government is concerned, we haven't done anything significant about agriculture. Velim, what I mentioned earlier, and former Minister Tolusic, who spoke, also passed a new Agricultural Land Act, did not put the new hectares of agricultural land into operation. We didn't. The prime minister always boasts that we have a 2.9% growth, GDP is 2.9% growth. You know how much agriculture contributes to that? - One percent. Agriculture does not contribute to GDP but reduces it. It's a sad thing that I had in 2019. As far as the latest statistics are concerned, we have less and less pork production, or for domestic purposes, we only have 35% of pork we produce, we produce only 30% veal, we have 50% milk, the ministers will resent me if I may have made a little mistake, I'm not sure much. Unfortunately, that's what's going on here with us. And the prime minister says we'll be producing 60% for our own needs in the future. I don't know how. How are we going to possibly jump to 60% of this 35-40 jump? I wish those were words that are serious, which are going to happen, but frankly, in this together I'm not optimistic. I'm not optimistic about many other things. Here, yes, the prime minister said 60% of agricultural production should be ordered from Croatian production and processing, but those 60% seem to me, as well as those of former Minister Tolusic, who said we would export milk to China. Here, these are, these are these statements that I would say at this point are a little unserious. What needs to be done urgently for farmers should be increased to 100% support. We have 80% today to help them with the fact that even those 80% are late. It's something that's called a daily farmer and I'm giving here support, I don't know which of my colleagues said there was no agricultural show yesterday, that's exactly the kind of thing you should be talking about right now. Ask farmers how to help them in these difficult times, how in these difficult times to produce enough for all our needs. Unfortunately, this year we will probably have nothing or very little from tourism, so it is difficult to connect this blue and green RH, and we can connect this blue and blue or green and green to have Croatian products in our supply centres, not to sell products that are from imports. My colleague Križanić was a little funny, so he said we'd leave some at the border. Well, the European Commission probably wouldn't allow it either, but let's do it. The fact that Hungary does many things, many things that do not correspond to the European Commission. But it is, but it protects its farmers, protects its economy and protects everything that Hungarians do, let the commission criticise them. I would immediately agree that the commission criticises us, that it gives us packages, but that every day we have more and more farmers every day that we have more and more and more people to pay for it, and unfortunately that's not the case. I will mention now and some of the measures SDP proposed a month ago, two, that was to open the markets, today we did not open the markets and this little Croatian producer produced has no place to place. Large supply centres generally do not prefer Croatian producers, so markets need to be opened, clearly with certain precautions, but the Croatian farmer must have a place to place their products, and these are not supply centres. Furthermore, reduce VAT to agricultural re-promatter to 5%, further, immediately ensure the normal availability of the service network, namely we are now at the time of sowing. If our agricultural producers can't get their parts won't be any of the crops, it's all urgent. Emergency setting up in case we can't market, emergency setting up so-called. short supply chains because the markets are now closed. Some such measures have already been taken, some cities are productive, some innovative and put online markets. I've been to an online market not to propagate that town of one of my colleagues right now, and that's actually very good. I think farmers will have to find themselves in a situation to help themselves or we will all help them together, but not with the law that is here today but with the real strategy of Croatian agriculture, thinking that we really have more and more farmers every day. My opinion is that food is the business of the future, but under these conditions it's not. Let's move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197365	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Lovrinović and the respected representative Sabolek will speak. First of all, the respected representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197366	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. I especially welcome you fellow citizens. You keep asking me on the facebook why I'm talking here when a few people sit here first are restrictions, so secondly, you didn't choose me to teach MPs dear citizens, so they're only here when they come to vote what they need and go home. I came here because of you to say what you think, and you don't have a chance to say it or you can't. If there is any possibility that Croatia can take off, if and where there is in this situation an infection of the coronary virus and a threatening recession it is agriculture. Why? Because in a year's time, it means creating a GDP added value faster than in other segments, sectors and there's really a lot to be done. However, the system needs to be launched, first of all financing, secondly, and in the first place before financing the guarantee of the ransom. I am a child from the village, dear citizens, and I also walk a lot in Croatia, here I am now temporarily staying at St. Ivana Zeline, I talk to people there, I hang out people tell me things, I see and there's a small town and there's a closed market. So people are normal? You're letting shopping malls hit people's hands there, roll over vegetables, fruit that came from the biggest heart of the crisis most of the time from Italy, and there's no problem. And over there, the booths, the gigs, so we can say, who if the atomic fell anywhere, right here on the Quartet, cleans the asphalt. And you're pushing people into malls with masks in a closed area where they're pretty ideal conditions for expansion, and there's no green market anywhere open. Three weeks ago in the Parliament, I really asked for it first, and I'm glad that now almost all MPs support it and give it to me tomorrow. Well, you can't on the one hand, what kind of farm law, what pawnage, on the one hand, the Agriculture Act, on the other hand, don't give them a sale, make them digitally, means they sell via the Internet. So don't play. Buy all surpluses of agricultural products. Why? Give people the money they sell right away. Why? So I can sow, process after harvest, that's real politics. And I'm listening a little while ago when I listen to Mr. Križanić, a member of the HDZ, who is the ruling self-pity, and I mean from which party this man is moaning, moaning, suggesting that no one listens to him in his power. So I support you in these suggestions. You know what I like about you? When you said imported meat products in quarantine for 14 days. Why? Then they won't be able to sell themselves like our fresh ones. Bravo fellow Križanić, you see me is not the problem of supporting a HDZ man if he has a smart proposal. But I don't like nonsense, you idiot. I don't like listening to you steal from God and the people time. Because if someone cares just to kick the straw in here, then they need to close this firm right now. So, to return, what are the measures proposed by party experts to change Croatia, first, to guarantee the ransom of everything, but to guarantee the ransom you need to have what? Storages, cereal silos, you should have freezers, you should have dryers. Here's what you're investing in, we need people's investments, that's what's important. Secondly, finance, give favourable conditions for seed, for harvest, for all these conditions that are there, buy everything that exists now. So there's no better prevention of infection to raise immunity is healthy domestic food, so I see people my neighbor Stef is digging up a garden real, people are starting to produce more. Well, people, I'm telling you from this pay phone as an economist, you're gonna need a food problem, especially healthy food. The best is to protect health and immunity with healthy food, healthy air, healthy water, back to the elementary village logic that I always appreciate. And to conclude, without big stories, I could talk a lot about it. So guarantee ransom, open green markets, give cheap sources, and what you're only prolonging for payment is not special measures, it can be done by anyone. Therefore, make state measures and decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197367	She will now continue her respected representative, Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197368	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of these days, we are invited to serve our neighbors by staying home. There are many things that are beyond our control and are still unknown as much and how we are going to deal with this crisis, but we can focus and be faithful to the tasks that are ahead of us. Our invitation hasn't changed for farmers. We're in favour of raising ourselves to choose the food that we all depend on. But farmers can't do it alone right now. In the days, weeks and months ahead, agriculture will continue to depend on access to labour that will help it to grow, grow, harvest our crops. Empty shelves can be scary, but empty fields and stables can be devastating. The agricultural policy of HDZ SDP has proved to be poor. You have put Croatia in a position to depend on the arrival of a ship from Argentina or Germany. Croatia must primarily produce and purchase agricultural products locally. Government measures do not take into account self-insulation farmers. Who will feed animals, soak and feed plantations, prepare for sowing, and perform all other agricultural activities while the farmer or his family is in isolation? The affected farms can't afford to waste 2 weeks or more. In order to help family farms, holders and members who have to stay in self-insulation, we invite local self-government, municipalities and cities to participate and organise people who will work in this area through public works and thus ensure that agricultural businesses are done to those in self-insulation. As measures to mitigate the crisis, we also ask for the provision of high-speed credit lines with a zero interest rate and grants to finance the spring seed. This release of the lease of state agricultural land for 2020. These times should remind us of the importance of ensuring the security of our country's food. Many merchants temporarily close shops. It is already a dramatic impact on the flower sector and decoration plants that feel directly and quickly the blow of closing their shops. It will also affect other sectors more dependent on restarting. Consuming fresh products can suffer as a result of captivity because families rarely buy and daily routines are disturbed. Like everyone, I pray for the end of this pandemic. I also believe that great stories about serving neighbors who help neighbors and communities who work together and even remotely to protect each other will shine brightly. The living wall is working on it. We're at the disposal of everyone who needs help. But we wonder if the worst is still, if the worst is still coming. Whether the Covid-19 crisis will develop into a complete economic crisis as a result of the closure of a large number of the economic sector. To make things worse, there is no safety valve through exports because the crisis is affecting the whole world. On the contrary, it will also suffer exports. It is therefore foreseeable that agricultural markets will, to some extent, fall more than others in a crisis in a depressed economic environment. At present, our main focus must be on managing and reducing the consequences of the worst crisis that has hit this sector. Supply chains have been hit, but employees whose fates remain uncertain. Also, you are late with the offer, quote the Ministry of Agriculture within 30 days will create an application that will function as a digital market. It takes you 30 days to create such an application in such a difficult time. We ask for the correction of the State's injustice towards farmers through the fulfilment of their guaranteed rights, which is the payment of incentives at the full amount by 15 April at the latest. The only concern and struggle for the liquidity of each agricultural holding is the crisis. I remind you once again, empty shelves can be scary, but empty fields and stables would be devastating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197369	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGE and independent representatives and New Politics in the name of which time will be shared by respected representatives Sagar and Orepic. First of all, the Honorable Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197370	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, only two opening items. Agricultural production is a serious entrepreneurial activity, and when we talk about agriculture, then we have to bear in mind that this is a very broad term that includes a lot of sectors where not all things are equal, nor are problems equal. This is what is important to distinguish when we talk about this subject, and agriculture can really be talked about with many aspects. What is crucial, the common agricultural policy, its basic objectives are to ensure available, healthy, affordable and safe food. And the other thing is to preserve rural spaces, and that's why we often talk about this talk about the position of peasants, about the village, because it's the key and survival of exactly rural areas, and at the end of the Republic of Croatia that has a crowd, as we saw today in the debate, we have 555 plus 1 unit of local self-government, we can think about territorial reconstruction, but we must always think about the survival of these areas. In that sense, I can welcome the ministry's efforts to increase advance payments, direct payments at the end of the year, as I saw on the ministry's pages, and that is a very good measure. What we can also welcome, as regards these three amendments to the law, is certainly to allow farmers a longer period of return because if they get into difficulties, they will need it. But there are problems that are broader than this, so it's a serious entrepreneurship within agricultural production and then we can ask ourselves a question, today it's said several times, we don't produce enough, we never have a greater incentive for smaller production. And I can even say it this bad, so maybe the EU is just giving us money so we don't produce it. In 2018, 22,000 hectares of the country were under fire. So the land rested, which is why there was an incentive. So it turns out they're paying us not to produce. So if that's really the case, that's what we have to ask ourselves. I would rather seek blame for our strategies, our plans, which we should do, not only for the ministry but for the entire sector of agriculture and all those who influence it. The other thing that is very important for production is agricultural land. We, the minister, have announced that the amendments to the law will soon come, the ministry has come to the contrary claims that the situation, in fact, not to call the tenders, is the county, the municipalities are wrong. In 2000, we had, the municipalities were then bringing programmes, first programmes, later in 2011, the agency was introduced and there were great criticisms on the work of the agency, no competitions were conducted. Now it's back again, with the latest changes or the latest, I don't know anymore, there's been frequent changes to the law on local self-government units and now there's accusations from the ministry that the local self-government units haven't done it or the county. That's not good messages. We need to work out what we're gonna do. Currently, local self-government units are preparing competitions and for these tenders, the ministers need documentation, and we need to tell them immediately whether the municipalities are going to launch competitions when they form technological units because there will be a need to collect significant documentation from the FINA, the Tax Administration, the Agency. So whether it will be able to do so in this state of crisis, threaten with health, or that these tenders are still prolonging, but we do not know what the next amendment is, because there has been an announcement that this limitation of the amount of hectares that a particular tenant may have in his possession will be lifted. So these are the things that we need to answer. And finally, because Orepic also speaks, we should finally think about agricultural production in the future so that food is sufficient. Here's an example, two years ago in Djakovština, we had a case that cattle were fed with fresh corn caused cattle disease. Why? Because they're not exactly planning on that supply, the supplies are important, I guess our silos are empty, that's what we should think about. Do not think that someone does not accuse us of going back to the planned production, but it certainly is not a sin to mention that food production in the Republic of Croatia should be planned and should go to those cultures that are needed to preserve food and health in the Republic of Croatia. A fellow Eagle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197371	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative of Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197372	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with a colleague. We are talking about amendments to the Agricultural Act under Articles 144, 145 and 146. First a few things that are unrelated to this directly, so I'm taking advantage of the opportunity to forgive or delay the rent of state land, I want to draw attention to you that there are a whole series of people who are not politically elected, that they have state land and who pay their rent to privates at 300 percent higher price. These same farmers are already being set up and ultimatums, this is what I'm telling you from the field and landowners are blackmailing them because of this situation, asking for a lease payment in advance of the contract, the payment of a large amount of meat that is then illegally sold to the locals. These are the facts. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that already many agricultural shops have raised the price of plant protection funds in the sky because of the restrictions on movement and so on. It's a disaster. Let's go on the subject. Listening to some colleagues and colleagues in front of me that I don't know what this is about, I've come to cry, just for the poster we're talking about. So we're talking, we're opening up the opportunity to get the money back, to delay paying back the money to the people who didn't even need that money because they were wrong in some process of getting that money. It's insane. So we're opening up in this crisis situation, we're going to go bargaining, or we're opening up the possibility that the minister can forgive, or postpone it for three years. I hope you won't, but that's the only option because the only ones who've made a mistake in getting that money back here are the ones who've made a mistake. That's terrible. And that trend is seen in this year. So we have information that even in this year that they were unfoundedly competing, let me put it this way for incentivizing assets that didn't have the basis. The agency has issued a solution that they must return, or will now issue, whether or not they will even be able to pay off those funds and will be postponed for three years. That's terrible. Don't let it happen, Minister, if that's what you're going to do, it's just an alarming situation. I will repeat, at this point, with these amendments, the additions to the law allow us to postpone the repayment of the obligation to pay the penalties to those people who didn't need that money at all. It's mostly a party army, don't mind me, but that's how it is and it's worrying and we can't let it happen. So simply, in every segment, I've spoken to the past law, we're separating ourselves from being, we're separating ourselves from the essence and we're trying to cover up some things and use this situation to solve some potential damage. Notably, a whole series of incentives have been achieved by people who did not have the right to do so. And we're aware of that, and we're aware of the facts, so we're aware of the facts, and I don't think we have any examples anywhere in the world that people are plowing grain. They erode the grain because it is not worth their harvest, and then they strove because it is worth their while only to receive incentives. Unbelievable. These laws cannot pass, this possibility must not be allowed. These legal amendments shall not be allowed. There is no reason for the minister, nor for the Prime Minister, nor for anyone to delay the return of money from those who should not have received the money. And these amendments and additions that are proposed apply only to that, if I'm wrong, I apologize to both you and everyone. So, you can't do this at all, I don't know who this has occurred to by heart to propose to. Please have her and don't fall into that situation, whether those who receive money and write laws. It's high time we started to speak openly to say that this way we were giving opportunities to thieves and thieves who allowed these thieves to take incentivizing funds, and they had no basis for it. And we postpone to 3 years, and watch out the EU says the regulation says what is not chargeable within 4 years is considered non-chargeable. Is it a conscious avoidance of the obligation, is it conscious to bring these people in after four years to get them fired, that they don't even have to pay back that money they stole? Stole people who work honorably, who process the country, whose state is late with the payment of incentives, etc., etc. Please, let's seriously respect the law of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately this assembly committee has supported this. Instead of calling DORH to see who approved those fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197373	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197374	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues here are a few words on the law, on the additions of the Agriculture Act with the final draft law on behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club. Well, first of all, it should be said that this law is part of the government of the Republic of Croatia's measures to help the entire economy, including farmers in the Republic of Croatia. And in the first set of measures two and three weeks ago there were some 6.7 laws in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture that changed, and then I said, and now I will repeat that it is far too small if it really wants to help the Croatian peasant and Croatian agriculture. And it is not good that these measures are proposed, which for small and medium-sized families amount to around 52.5 million kuna and 2.5 million kuna for the intervention buy-in of milk compared to the total of 60 billion to be allocated to support in the economy and citizens in the Republic of Croatia because of this crisis. Of course there are still 3 billion and 100 grand for direct payments, etc., but why did you agree to reduce the budget of 5% to the Ministry of Agriculture. In times of crisis, decisions should be made on time and courageous and I believe that all colleagues here with me would support you and will support you if we ask how you announced additional measures in 3 sets and more funds to support agriculture because this is certainly not enough. You know that, and you said that yourself, that we're expecting more development, monitoring and allocation, but we're always late, it's always going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be. I think it is high time that we really care about agriculture, about food production in the Republic of Croatia, if we really stick to the fact that agriculture is a strategic branch in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, if this is a question of national security, what many colleagues here today have said, a question of self-sufficiency in food production, then we must certainly have more serious access to how to manage Croatian agriculture and how much resources to go in support of agriculture. We see that, through the implementation of the common agricultural policy, the European Commission sees agriculture as important, one of the most important economic branches and nowhere in Europe, agriculture is not purely the economic, entry, exit, difference of whether it has, plus or minus, but is looking at these and other objectives, which is self-sufficiency in food production, seeing environmental protection, preserving rural space, the rest of life in these rural areas, this is all expensive agriculture. We in Croatia must finally turn to agriculture and food production in a different way. Since we finally put all agricultural land in the function of agricultural production, we still haven't. We still have too much raw agricultural land, we still haven't found a model of what is public water good, what is within the Croatian forests, and in nature is agricultural land. Why now separate this from the entire agricultural land fund, move from the local self-government units' programme and thus slow down the process of calling a public tender for leases and concessions on agricultural land, which you have done. Two years late with the law-making process, it has now been almost 1.5 years, and only 40 municipalities and cities have called or announced the call for tenders. You've issued consent for only 10 tenders. That's the result of four years of land resource management. It's also a big question if you really want to solve self-sufficiency and safety when it comes to food, what about stock reserves? Why was that in the closed part of the government meeting? How much really within 500 grand, 500 million kuna do we have food? How much is wheat, sugar, flour and other products? Do we only have them on paper or do we have them in reality? And will they react to the market since we see that the prices of certain products have started to rise? And what I suggested last time and I will repeat, it is an opportunity that now that the seed is in front of us for the stock reserves contracts for the production of agricultural products in Croatian fields in Croatian peasants. And not to buy it in the market, and then we get it, and I don't know who they're stocking it from. And spent taxpayers' money from the Republic of Croatia. And you need to balance agricultural production, see what these are needs of the Croatian population and how to organise that production. Nowhere's she pure plus, minus, difference, whether she has a plus or not. You can see that everywhere. So Croatia should also look beyond that because it is now a national interest and a security issue because I have already mentioned an example of a ban on exports from Germany, medical equipment, the ones their minister assessed as requiring German health care. It can happen tomorrow with any agricultural culture from our environment that we import from Italy, Spain, France, so here I read an article. in Agroklub, there's a big problem with importing beef and beef from Argentina. And it's very nice and that's how it is, but what have we done to raise production in Croatia? This is a key issue and I agree with my colleague Križanić, so we need to introduce some measures, health care, phytosanitary care, etc. and other models, stop import goods at the border until sold and market domestic products. First to raise domestic production, then find models to make it harder to import agricultural products in Croatia, especially those of questionable quality that has been in refrigerators for several months. And here they serve, and goods supplies, there they also serve these state measures through the policies of the entry of goods into Croatia. What should also enable our agricultural producers to organise production. And they need a moratorium on loans they have, a year, Grace no interest. That's what the Ministers try, with the Minister of Finance and deal with the banks. It's necessary for them. And not only that, but in the next 5 years, provide them with craftsmanship through HBOR, or wherever we are lucky to have listened to some who have advocated the establishment of agrobank that would be a better service to our agricultural producers because it is obvious that those in commercial banks find it difficult to come across a partnership. They're mostly third or fourth-row partners, especially small O.P.G.s. And, of course, that part of them should provide craftsmen, because they were mostly relying on large buyers who gave them re-promatter until harvest, at prices that were 20, 30% higher, and in the purchase of their products they printed them with the price down and then they hadn't paid them for a year. Well, here, and today, I got the information that there's a cucumber manufacturer who hasn't gotten for the goods they delivered last year. And we have a law on unfair commercial practice, we have payment deadlines, and right now I'm afraid of what's now, of course, potentially interested in our trading houses for ransom from our O.P.G.s, so what do you think they're really interested in right now? No, they are having difficulties in supply chains from European countries, so they are now oriented and forced to go to small producers in Croatia. But yet there remains a danger at which he appreciates and which payment deadlines. And that's why it would be better if the state had just done what you've done, if you'd instructed the public institutions to buy agricultural products, to include them in the public procurement system up to 60%. It's not an instruction. It's an order. This should be an order, whether or not you can, but at the cost of the EU Commission, I think that this would save our producers. 'Cause now what's the flower producers gonna do? They don't have anywhere to sell. A million kunas of these support, it's not for them to warm up six cans. What's wine producers gonna sell no buttocks? What are the Union meat producers going to do, here from Dalmatia are, each day getting orders fired, and they've had long-term cooperation? And we already have a problem with exporting outside Croatia to the eastern markets precisely because of these coronary virus problems. You must immediately organize the purchase of that June meat because, on the market, it is available at our OPG, and in Kobash, around Djakov and around Vinkovec. Also highlighted is the problem of passes, vouchers, seasons, give a little less administration. Help these little O.P.G.s get better at it. I think that that advisory service that you've abolished would have helped a lot more if it had stayed in that form and had been more in contact with agricultural producers than had been turned into administrators. Unfortunately these days we also have a problem that many raw agricultural land were leased to each other... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197375	Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder: Here, final message that I expect from you, Minister...]] The next club will be the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. [[Intruder: A more aggressive performance and that you will have our support if you choose more funds for agriculture. Thank you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It's interesting, but the theme of agriculture always causes a very good debate, but it all ends up here and then we forget about it again. At a time of crisis, of course, then we remember the food again because without food, no one can. And these days, as everyone's already saying, we have a real situation that we can do some things easier, with less red tape than usual because we're in extraordinary circumstances because of the crisis that's here. And I really think that we can take advantage of this crisis, especially in the food sector in a good way and that many of the things that have been done wrong all these 30 years, we can start to fix and move in that direction as we should. Of course, many of us will not be able to get back, the natural thing that many have given up that agricultural production has come into the situation that there has been a massive abandonment of it, not only for reasons of incompetence but also for a completely different way of life, especially for younger people, we must also be open and clear because many young people from the great bosses who had households have completed some schools, some colleges and went to do some other jobs. They didn't continue the family business, there's that. But I'm sure there'll always be some new guy who'll start doing things like this. We're all talking today and these days we're talking about markets, small producers, OPGs, and it's always an interesting topic, of course, it has a very wide audience. Well, often times it's not quite as real as it's supposed to be. I keep saying that little ones can't survive unless they're helped in the production organization, then ransom and placement. We need to reconcile both the big ones and the small ones in agriculture. Upgrade with the food and processing industry. At the beginning of this session today, I mentioned the largest food and processing industry in Podravka, in which the state has 25 and how much more percentages along with the funds and over 52 reportedly that these pension funds already have no pensions but ours. So this is where the words are spoken, we order, we ask, we seek, that without such things we will achieve nothing. We just have to go there at least where the state has co-owners and ownership interests to take advantage of that ownership stake and ask the management that was set up to set things up quite differently. To launch processes that have long since been cut off. Just as we must call on local and regional communities to organise themselves and start doing a job that should be their priority, primarily the county, primarily the county. Therefore, they are those who can find their full meaning precisely in the organisation of agricultural producers, in the organisation of production in small economies, in the organisation of purchases, in the organisation of placements. Because nothing will matter to us like these laws, but of course we will support this bill as a club because we believe that it is important and important at the moment, because people won't be able to spend something they planned on because of the situation we were in. And it would be really crazy to ask people to pay back money because they weren't able to spend that money on the program they were planning, for which they got that money. But if we don't start institutes that will gather, organize and build legal frameworks that will enable them to ensure that these products are placed as I said the other day in restaurants and hotels that have reduced VAT. Why shouldn't the condition for this VAT reduction be that they have to have on their menus 60%, I say 60 can be another number, 60% of Croatian domestic products. If we're already agreeing on a scale and we can do it there, we have that possibility, but again these small producers will not make a contract with any hotel individually, with some strong restaurant chain because they don't have enough production potential to do it themselves. So somebody's got to put it together again, organize it, then place it. And this should be seen regionally, is not Croatia the same in each part as it is not the same and in the land-based areas for production, so it is not the same in products that people can produce. A significant step should be made in this section, and then people will find themselves, young people will also appear, there are examples in Croatia, there will be sales in the markets. Once the crisis has passed, fairs will return where the mass of small producers sold their products. But for those of you, for those of you, there's a small number of people who might have their own and some extra income, but there's got to be a general solution. So this is how I can tell in a joke that my 4-year-old granddaughter Tilia already knows about agriculture as much as we talk about it, we're all talking about it, but she's not moving. I'd also ask the minister when she's here to see the possibility, I know you're working on it, and we've talked about it, but let it be a message to our farmers whose projects have passed on certain measures to see and await this field reconnaissance. Now the problem on the ground people don't go because of the crown crisis, they can't get people paid, they can't solve further they have plans to come in trouble situations. Okay, they'll probably be able to extend credit payments or make some kind of shifts, but maybe they'll exert themselves at least to make some kind of written enquiries, to get a picture of what needs to be taken, and then to make sure that people have given the right information to maybe avoid this field reconnaissance, this problem of exposure to people and that people can be paid off for the programs they've been granted. And I believe this crisis will make us smarter. I think we hit the wall well with our noses, and now it's just that our eyes open up a little bit and then something good and useful comes out. In this, we all support you ministers, the ministry and the government, of course, with Prime Minister Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197377	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one was to be a respected representative of Pernar. He's gone, so he'll be speaking to a respected representative, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with an associate. I will support this intervention measure proposed here. I have to say that I was a little shocked by my colleague Orepić because I didn't understand what the law said, but as far as I understand it, it's actually about delaying or making it easier for people who weren't able to pay off their programmes because of special circumstances. If I'm wrong, correct me, but that's how I understood. If so, it seems logical under these circumstances. But I actually wanted to take the opportunity to say a few other things. I understand colleagues who, in these circumstances, are trying to find bypasses, I would say not quite legal ways to reduce imports, and direct consumers at all levels to turn to Croatian products. But I think a team, my recommendation would be no matter what you do not resort to such measures. So this may be a good situation to come up with a new concept so that a new concept that, under conditional terms and conditions, might come up with a lot more resistance from various lobbies than it would be now. So, I don't think it's a good way to try in any way to bypass any rules, any laws, any obligations that are taken into account by consumers, people who buy these products, and which means a lot that they can get home products, but also products that they can afford, so those who have marketable money to buy on the market have the right to ask them to allow them to produce at prices, if there are prices that are affordable to them to say so. So, I don't think it's a good idea that in any way they're trying to fool the rules that we've taken over and by which we have to act, but probably the right way to make our products, domestic products seem competitive and accessible, and that's reforming the rules and reforming legislation that is certainly possible at present. And this one, like any crisis that's always an opportunity that sounds like a flossula, but in this situation, it hasn't flossed. In an area where lobbys are strong and often very difficult to overcome in a crisis, there may be something quieter, there may be some weaker and reform of legislation and rule reform can overcome them. Therefore, I think this is an opportunity, not to try to cheat, but to try to establish such frameworks and such a model of development and support for agriculture that will make our products available or competitive on the market for our citizens. And they certainly will even if the same prices or approximate prices are much better bought than imported and imported only when they are dramatically cheaper or when ours are gone. It is now shown, often said that agriculture, though, is also a strategic activity for many other branches. It's often people say they don't know exactly what it means or think it means it's important. It is now shown to mean that it is an activity without which we cannot survive and that is why it is in crisis and that is why it is so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197379	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Pusic, I think this crisis has actually revealed how much our agriculture on its knees and how neglected or misleaded agricultural production has been for years. But we always go back to this basic problem, which is placed on the market and a sufficient amount of product for the same which our producers should have to be competitive. I'm afraid this country hasn't done much, and it promotes such roundings, but we have some bright examples. For example, in Čakovec there is a green market, in principle, that all local producers send their products to one loading place, which is on the market, so the market is doing logistics services, people send orders to the same market that then delivers them to addresses. Here's one way that units of local self-government have come up with this problem that the country with the stock exchanges of agricultural products can't solve here for 30 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197381	The answer of the respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197382	Thank you very much. I agree with you, it has several local good examples, Istria is also a good example. Istrian winemakers a few 20 years ago carried their wines around in plastic canisters, most of which were not drunk. Today it is a top product that is absolutely successful on the market. What were the strategies? Education, long-term agricultural land rental owned by what local self-government could, so municipalities of cities and counties in this case and organisational help in the placement. It's probably something we could even try nationally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197383	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197384	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said nicely that the crisis has shown how important agriculture and food production is and that is why it is strategic. And you have well pointed out that agriculture and our agricultural products should make it more competitive, but also accessible and affordable for the customer. Our agriculture can be made competitive, but other policies and a series of measures that should be developed now, but surely it should be reduced costs at the entrance, that the fragmentation of agricultural land should be resolved, that the VAT issue that is surrounded by agricultural products is much lower and that it is safe to provide distribution channels for these agricultural products, and then we close markets for those of our small OPG cannot place their product. Here are models that are not good and to learn from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197385	I completely agree with you. I'd just like to add education, to allow young people from the village to be educated precisely in agrinomia, so in those disciplines that help them in agriculture. On the other hand, we need to start using and listening to scientists who deal with agriculture as a science.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197386	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of the Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197387	Thank you. Dear colleague Pusic. So, strategic thinking. Here's an example, we built a series of bio-mass energans and in Slavonia area, the owner is a stranger, he directly negotiated with the cooperatives the supply of mass and regularly paid and then now the co-operant who took that biomass from farmers and didn't pay them. These are significant amounts. It happens first that we haven't been strategically thinking because that area where biomass is not for food and the other thing, the market is not regulated by the legal frameworks that delivered goods must be paid. And now if these farmers want help, if they turn to help that they're not paid then they say the answer is such a market, they're contractual obligations they have to deal with each other. But such things must not be negotiated if agricultural land is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, then the biomass that has taken the place of food can not be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197388	The answer of the respected representative Pusic. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197389	It's not a market, it's a thief.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197390	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197391	Here I would continue what I was saying on behalf of the club, and basically here I listened to you carefully fellows, we all made affirmative suggestions and we all realized that this corona crisis has shown the state of Croatian agriculture, that Croatia is not self-sustainable, and it has all the conditions of having agricultural land as the key to agricultural development is agricultural land and all the resources we have from the possibility of livestock production, from karst to flat Slavonia. The fact that we haven't used these potentials and I think that this global story that we've been called on will take so long, that the village and the peasant don't trip us, that these people who are our peasants... the farms are strategically evicted and now the triba is clearly and loudly telling us the agricultural revolution, perhaps too much, but the fact is that 800,000 hectares of agricultural land are under the covers then we have to talk about the agricultural revolution. All patterns, legal frameworks, all norms fall here under the feet, simply wrong policies have led to us taking three billion euros that is enough, over 3 billion food products, to re-promise the state-owned company that manufactures Croatian brands such as Podravka, for example, importing repromaterials, carrots, peppers, other vegetable products we import agricultural products from Hungary. To import the dough frozen and at the height of a billion kuna, dough, and Croatia flat Slavonia is unsupervised. So at this point we have one key strategy, Your Honor, I will indeed, that's what I said on behalf of the club, I will support you. The agriculture ministry is the owner of state, state authorities, the agriculture ministry is providing a schedule, meaning the programme to local land allocation self-governments. The county must give its consent, the mayor, and the ministry again. Throw out the county, they're the problem. Please, it's politically delegated. And those local leaders who don't want to make, distinguished ministers, to divide agricultural land for political reasons or any other reason, so we will give you the authority to divide those who plow, plant and dig agricultural land. I call upon all of us, I come from the area of these areas where agriculture lived. Well, I wore milk every morning when I went to school. People, sharing milk in bottles. I sold towels or markets, and that's how families lived, each with their land lived and fed. Someone harder, someone easier. But the fact is, it was working. Now suddenly the village is dead, the peasant is dead. We have to revolution, we can't talk about big strategies now because the globalisation strategy, as far as self-sustainability is concerned, has failed. No one will care about us if any crisis persists. This crisis, the health crisis has shown how vulnerable we are. And how unprepared we are, how political we are, mostly vermin within the ministries that favored import lobbys. Destroyed Croatian peasants and Croatian village. I said, on behalf of the club, that we must destroy Croatia. It should be a revolutionary call from the Minister, the Government, and we must not dream of a winter dream. I know these measures are given in the best of faith, but that's not enough. We're talking about strategies now. So as far as the strategy was written, I think all the state buildings we have to put, the money gave, invested in it, and they're not real. It's very simple at this point. From local self-government to ministries, to those of us who have private land, we have to start plowing ores. We've burned 2/3 of Croatia under the weeds. It's like we're unprepared. If we want to talk about legal frameworks now, sovereignty is self-sustainability. Agricultural land is the key to this story. Well, we can't, we've shut down all the O.P.G.'s, milk producers. Very few left. In Croatia, there are no more shepherds. No more sheep, no more goats. No, very little, go away, look from Like down towards descending, yes, that's a fact She shepherds very little. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Yeah, yeah, it's funny when they attack here. As shepherds, as shepherds, [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Facts, there isn't. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197392	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Dobrović. Here you go. Stay a colleague, Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197393	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj. You mentioned that time of strategy might be over or there's no time for them. I certainly see what you're saying, so you're not a man who's against strategy and strategic thinking, but the present moment is where common sense should go. It is clear to everyone that Croatia today stands disastrously in terms of agriculture. So such a lack of self-sufficiency is not acceptable to a single free monastery and sovereign land. So like one family today, we need to be together and see what and how and of course that is quite possible today in this country. However, are we ready to resist a clientele that does not yet go that way?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197394	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj. [[Yes, I'd agree that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197395	Thank you very much. I would agree, and at first I told the minister that I would give her absolute support, only to start plowing Croatian oraries, but the clientele and import lobbyes that had choked, so they literally swept the Croatian village, the country was burned, 2/3 of Croatia is empty, I think there are solutions. Long-term strategic documents are good, but it's over. At this point, we must act today. We today, here is the time when the fruit material can be used, the time where it can be plowed, planted, it is the time of planting. Now the tribune is included, all the fruit material in the Republic of Croatia, whoever wants to plant it, the triba is assigned to me, only to be processed, the turret of Croatian fields that are under the weeds. And that's sovereignty. The time of globalisation, which they were referring to, for what, other countries had passed. This should sober us up and return to sovereign production and self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197396	The next replica is the esteemed Velligay representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197397	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Bulj, dear minister. Well, here's what I agree with most of the things you said, we need this one cooperation and the state level, especially the local level. From that point of view, the same call for local self-government at the moment when it will also bear a great financial burden of this crisis, that through the state too, some instruments will be found to help it because it only has the capacity to also, to make a big contribution here. Yeah, we've come up with a lot of strategies, and unfortunately, there's a lot of things that haven't been realized in those strategies. This is a beautiful, idealistic invitation, to model Croatian fields, but we must start from some foundation. The fact is, we still don't have the land books, that we have the mass of stuff, that we have a lot of... relationships that are unresolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have people who would invest in agriculture, however, You don't have any foundation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] We've got to get there. That's where we're going. [[Intruder Reiner: Answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197398	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197399	I agree with you, what you have said is that the unsettled properties of agricultural land, mostly private property, come from those parts where exactly such a condition, where the particles have been cut down, but the property has not been solved, but it has already been resolved. We are now late, not today, not tomorrow, not yesterday, but in these circumstances where the land of the state is only 400,000 hectares of unprocessed land. We've passed laws, we've changed laws twenty times on agricultural land and it's not in two years, since this new law was passed, 11,000 acres is divided by 400,000 hectares. I call on the minister, and I believe that no matter what you are from the other party of the minister and I, we will support her if she finds a fast and urgent model to share the agricultural land with the Croatian peasant and react immediately, I will support you. Stop local sheriffs and mayors from stopping the development of the Republic of Croatia. These counties are the cause of the collapse of the Republic of Croatia. Remove them more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197400	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Marija Mackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197401	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Madam Minister, MPs and MPs. Most of the speakers today pointed out that agriculture is the basic branch of the economy, and I must say that it has been, as we say, since the beginning of time. I come from the village, and it's always said that houses were built from the barn. So then the farmers were working and building on their land and on their cattle, building a house, schooling children, paying taxes. Today, with all the support farmers receive most people in the country say, nothing is worth doing, nothing is worth doing, the land remains unprocessed, what happened. I think we've all changed and we all need to restart, or reset. Today, we are talking about the bill, the addition of the Agriculture Act, and I must say that the Agricultural Act, as it is known and has taken effect on 01.01.2019 and these amendments that we are talking about today and that we need to talk about, are going towards the fact that certain interventions are being carried out in that Law, and related to the epidemic caused by the virus or by the outbreak COVID-19. I must also say that, within the framework of the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of helping citizens and economies aimed at preserving liquidity and early places, with a view to reducing the negative impact it has on the impact of COVID-19 disease, these additions to the Agriculture Act are therefore proposed. The main objective of the proposed additions to the Law is to prescribe the possibility for the Ministry of Agriculture, that, in the case of multiple forces and exceptional circumstances as defined by the Regulation of the European Union, it may take a special decision to postpone the period for repayment of funds, i.e. to provide for the authorisation of the Ministry for making a special decision in the manner and conduct of the recovery procedures in the event of inability to collect the debt. In addition, in the event of payment of debt to wars and debt repayment delays, it is necessary to ensure that users are able to submit a request to the Agency for payment of debt to wars based on measures of agriculture policy and after the expiry of the period for repayment of funds provided that the last war has a maturity of no later than three years from the period of repayment of the debt prescribed by the Debt Reimbursement Decision. I must say and commend the Minister and the Ministry and the Government on the announcement of a development strategy. Also, we have to say whether or not we wanted to, that the Ministry and Government have brought a whole series of measures to help agriculture and farmers. As much as we wish to admit, I do not think that farmers and agriculture have used such a whole set of support measures using the European Union's funds, and also finding the possibility and allocation of national resources available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197402	The next debate will be individual representatives of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So this crisis, the pandemic, has discovered all the really unpreparedness of Croatian agriculture to deal with such a challenge, revealed all the wrong investment and strategic non-thinking in agriculture for the last 30 years, which has led us where we are. And we can now talk about problems, about those that we should have overcome, about rounding up, about logistics, etc., etc. However, it is now too late to talk about it, now we need to focus on the measures we can take now to enable farmers, producers, but also end-users, consumers, to also enable cheap products and farmers to survive. However, I would focus a little more on another sphere of economy that belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is forestry although it is not directly mentioned in this Law. I'd use my time to say a few words about it, since there won't be a chance. In fact, there was no mention of wood industry in the measures to save the economy, which is an extremely important branch of the economy because 90% of its production is actually being exported. About 40,000 workers were employed in the wood industry. In the Croatian forests, the company that manages our forest economy, about 8,500 together, round up 48 or 50,000 people. However, together with co-operatives of the Croatian Forests and co-operatives of the wood industry, which directly depends on the forest or wood sector, the number goes up to 100,000 employees. So it's 90,000 families that depend directly on the forest and wood sector or if we multiply it by 4, say, in some average family, we come up with data that about 400,000 people or 10% depend on this particular branch of our industry. According to current measures, the wood sector has a delay in paying raw materials for 60 days. In the beginning of the crisis, they sought additional delays and received an additional 40 days, so 100 days in total, however, in talks with many producers, they say it is not enough, and for reasons that their customers around Europe and the world have stopped production, due to the pandemic, and due to the blocking of transport routes. There has been an increase in the supply of raw materials in the Croatian forests and the Forests have stopped the production of wood raw materials, which is exactly what they should not have done. Why? Because at this point, it's a period when you cut quality raw materials and accumulate essential funds for the rest of the year. The production cycle in the wood industry lasts from 5 to 6 months, and in forestry, forestry depends on a very important factor, i.e. biological and in the period from 15.4. to 15.6. The beginning of vegetation. After that we enter the summer period when we cut far more unquality wood mass than this which should now be cut, if the wood industry does not have a supply of quality raw material, to mix it with this less quality, the question is how to get through all of this. Croatian forests must immediately start production, and the wood industry should be able to postpone payment of 150 to 180 days depending on how long the crisis will take. If it doesn't, it'll happen next. The supplies that exist now will be brought, excuse me, will be taken away by a section of the wood industry that has still some resources. We'll welcome 15.6. when the cut is allowed again without supplies and start cutting. In order for the wood industry to reach the first quantities of wood raw material at all, 25 to 30 days should pass. After that, trucks are driven in a sawmill, cut and moved further into the dryers. It is an additional 5, 6 months as long as cycles last and only then can you go further into furniture factories in the Republic of Croatia and continue. Currently, the wood industry cannot deliver finished raw materials to anyone. The only thing that can be done here is to save these 100,000 jobs is to continue the production and supply of wood industry raw materials with a postponement of payments, as I said, from 150 to 180 days, depending on the duration of the crisis. Otherwise, I'm afraid there's going to be a collapse in the wood industry that might make it out small because they're more flexible, but no big deal. Croatian forests will give a variety of reasons why they can't give a higher payment delay, and the real reason is that they spent all the possible supplies that they had by non-transparent spending and decommissioning the administration. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, for the first time in history, Croatian forests have more non-productive than productive workers with 55:45% ratio. In 2017, there were 7,000 employees, now 8 thousand and a half, with a wave in the non-productive sector. Well, if I were bad, I'd say because of the entanglement we're one company that's extremely healthy brought into this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197404	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197405	Thank you, Vice President of the HS, dear Minister with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Just a few more short notes, and it's about the law and the amendments to the laws we're discussing today. Namely, what characterizes agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, and not the Republic of Croatia, this is otherwise the case in many EU countries, which is primarily the age of the MAH. A small number of young people who are farmers. Some of these amendments to the Family Agricultural Economy Act have tried to change, but it will take some more time. The second thing is a major fragmentation of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The small average size of an individual particle, so now when calling for tenders, when forming technological units, units of local self-government have significant problems, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are using different applications to do so, and it is also important that the ministry enables as soon as possible or that we help local self-government units with recommendations on whether they are going to call competitions so that all those who want to compete can obtain documentation. The documentation is extensive, and at this point it's probably hard to do. What is crucial for production, agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia is that if we look at the State Statistics Institute report, then we can see that around 20,000 people in the Republic live directly from agriculture. So they pay taxes based on agricultural production. If we divide it by, if we roughly divide it by the number of hectares, then we can see that at 50 acres we have 1 employee. That's not good. Now, the question is, in the last 10 years in the area of machinery and conditions of agricultural production, significant progress has been made. So farmers have acquired a lot of agricultural machinery through capital investment and somewhere in Europe it is no wonder that, there is actually an average of the same that in agriculture very few people live and work from agriculture. But RH, the question now is what we have asked here, can the Republic of Croatia afford such luxury or do we have to go to a work intensive production strategy where a lot of people will be employed, especially here, if someone mentions that we are in danger of tourism or other production activities in the future, so it might be agriculture where we could hire a significant number of people, to do so, of course, of the processing industry, that we need infrastructure projects like freezers again for the processing industry. And here, I'm taking the opportunity to, this time I'm going to praise this project even though it wasn't the clearest thing to do with it. Namely, I was a little bit caught up in it, so I even said without bad intentions, I said better that money was invested on, for the launch of 200 stables in the Virovitica-Podravska County area. You've been to the opening of that project in Virovitica-Podravska County, it's about the Milk Research Centre. 36.6 million kuna, I think, is an investment. If we're going to invest, I'm going to say hello now, but if the investment isn't, if that Center doesn't live in such a way that all those people who went into investment, we see that many of those milkmen are now abandoned, they're farmed milk cows with 54 throats, I mean, some of them failed, and these centers need to help them revitalise, get back to that, cows in those areas, to produce milk. Or let me put it this way, it's not enough just to get certain projects through, and then not follow them. And do not follow those who need to use these.../incomprehensible/... and there we need to make significant steps to put agricultural land into operation, so that as many people as possible live and work on agriculture and that, after all, they can also produce enough food, especially here, it is shown in these times of crisis. And the support for this, I feel the same way, even though my colleague Orepic and I are in the same club, we disagree on this, I don't think it's good to say, hit what he wanted to say. These measures are necessary because these projects are currently not going to be able to be achieved at this pace and therefore these deadlines need to be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197406	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas, so you can stay, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197407	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, in your presentation at one point, you turned to the minister and asked yourself and her about the extensive documentation that was to be collected, so whether people should start collecting and everything else. It seems to me that this era of coronaryvirus has opened several topics. It has been shown that we can also work on simplified procedures, on somewhat weaker, or smaller documentation, and it seems to me, among other things, that, as some other things should be learned, that we should pay attention. Things are going to work and they're going to work, and if there's not going to be a whole bunch of paperwork, if there's going to be any simpler procedures and everything else, and it seems to me that... from this should be among other things, and that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Suddenly the passes started to work on the e-Citizens, which was not possible at the beginning. Everything turned out to be possible. Therefore, further amendments to the law should be made to that effect. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197408	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197409	Thank you, dear colleague Dark-Taritash. Here, and I think the ministry's measures also show that when we talk about advance payment, and as far as I'm concerned, it's only going to be an administrative test of the paperwork, to allow for a later check on the ground. These are, say, some of the possibilities for things to accelerate. Of course, then right now, things can always be accelerated both in the course of the competition and in the assignment of the country, but it's very important then that control. Control must be clear and control must be timely, so that there is no abuse, and things can certainly be accelerated in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197410	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197411	A colleague, so other than digitization itself, all you mentioned were actually, I would call it, past sins. So these are all the consequences that we are bringing about because of the poor and short-term and policy of the absence of a strategy, etc. I think that this crisis is now, and the crisis is saying that always and the possibility, and not just the crisis, so we are not a threat, has shown us that we must seriously reorganise this sector so that we must take seriously and in the long run our agricultural and strategic objectives and how much we must, no matter who is in power, direct all our energy, all the money towards these goals that we set ourselves together. This does not mean, of course, that neither great coalition nor no one mind, because we are likely to differ in the methods that we want to achieve, but it is high time to set our goals, not only in agriculture but also in general speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197412	Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197413	I agree with my colleague Hajdukovic. Lately, here's something special about this crisis. It's all about duty. It's about the danger of responsibilities. It's not a problem with the task, the problem is what the debt is used for, the money. When you talk about strategy, it's very important and money. Just take an example of the measure of agricultural land. A third of the county, a third of the states, a third of the municipalities and cities were very good, but when we look at success, how much we did it was a very small percentage. I would now suggest to the minister, but let us be in charge if we have to at foreign sources of funding, just to take a measure in the Republic of Croatia. As soon as we get that money, that money won't be spent in vain because if we take the right measure, if we finally define what we have in the Republic of Croatia, which we have, we'll be able to spend more easily then and the competition, then we'll know how much land we actually have in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197414	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197415	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome once again the minister and, of course, all of you fellow Members of Parliament. Definitely this crisis, we've already said that we support these measures even though we think this is just one beginning and that it will follow the whole, we can call them set, I think that's what you're saying, first, second, third set and there'll be more. So, a set of measures that will actually make this crisis an opportunity because we in agriculture really need a "reset", to use the alien here, so re-set the settings because these settings that we have today are being used and what regulation relations in agriculture are definitely bad, which we can also see from statistics. Otherwise, agriculture is a resort that fantastically, excellently ensures an excellent relationship between man and the environment, the environment. So it's a resistor that fertilizes the country, where income is created and that actually creates a reason for the people of the earth to stay. And let's look at these billions and 200 million Euros of uncovered imports, so with exports, in fact that imports are and, and 2-3 bigger, that's all the space in which we can act and provide new conditions for domestic producers to come to the market. All right, the market is free to secure, not to be touched in these settings. However, there are definitely tools that will allow locals to have the advantage, that locals have the advantage, that quality has the advantage and that people who go into production because here I have talked to a farmer, a cattleman, and also a warlord from Slavonia and he says here I can now go and grow a hundred pigs by this autumn. However, I need to know that the market or the system better said, will not deceive me. That means I'll find a way to the market because I think my product is certainly good and competitive if I have a chance to access it. Let us ensure these conditions that domestic producers can compensate for this deficit and here we have self-sufficiency, here we have at least 40,000 jobs for these, first these billions and something, and that will really be one, one, one rebirth of the Croatian village that is necessarily needed. This rebirth will be very good and on the economy, of course, it is also economic activity, not only the safety and survival of people, and it will also mean a lot in terms of demographics because we have a crucial demographic problem, we are losing the population, and if it happens now, an exodus new from these fields, if people really are in a position to throw their products away, then it certainly creates one, one feeling of despair, hopelessness that will then be implanted into the present generations and, and, and I don't know, then we can look at who, how, to whom, or who will be given the key to the lock. So I think we should actually have crisis management, so here's what we expect with the great expectation of a series of measures. You have a chamber here, you have various associations, so agriculture in the Republic of Croatia is at a high level and the expertise and sciences of association and it can of course be improved and definitely the Republic of Croatia can come out of this crisis significantly stronger on, for some new times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197416	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first one should have been a respected representative, and there's a respected representative, Maras, I haven't just seen him from this screen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Dobrovic, your question is, is it possible to use this to have better quality agriculture tomorrow and to do something that we always talk about, and we can't do, and that's that we make food in the Republic so much that we meet our needs and that it's possible to even export. And I also think that this is an opportunity to move in this way, but of course it is very important that the government is set up and determined in this way and that at the moment that our farmers can produce one of the few perhaps industries that can possibly work quality and have a great demand for their products to meet and help them, not only with the payment of incentives for those at least, that's good, but we need to come up with now what we're going to do next months, in which we're going to invest to get the industry on a healthy path after the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197418	Thank you. Dear Representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197419	Thank you very much. Yeah, I agree. In fact, the government can do very much now, in fact, everything depends on how far they can get away from the clientele. So it is the clientele that has crawled deep into Croatian society and it is not easy to get rid of it. So it's not just a matter of imports, it's not just a matter of bad use of state land and unfair schedules, it's not just a matter of poorly consumed and distributed incentives, there's everything. However, today's crisis is such that I definitely think it allows because I absolutely believe that the minister is not part of that clientele. However, it must have the power to simply push those measures it will take for, for a general interest that is often in conflict with the clientelistic interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197420	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197421	Thank you. Dear colleague Dobrović, how much of a need for domestic organic food can we see who are volunteering for Zagreb and who are bringing food to older people. Uh, very often these older people or people who are in self isolation when we come to them and ask what they need very often order domestic food, they want homemade apples, organic food. However, we suppliers cannot deliver it, but we must go to shopping centers and buy them food there. So the need for domestic food and these times of crisis is even bigger. And I think it was a deep mistake that they didn't open up, so the markets and the O.P.G.s because there was a need for, of course, security measures, it could have been arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197422	Dear Representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197423	Thank you very much. That's right, so organic production is another chance around which there is difficulty. However, there is also to make things simpler. First, our citizens have to learn that the price is not the only quality parameter of goods because you see what's more expensive, what's cheaper, so people buy. On the other hand, it's a mess about organic products. Someone claims it's ecological, and it doesn't have to be that way, so the labelling and control of food quality is something that generally in the Republic of Croatia would give us great advantages in winning new markets, and first in defending our own market. Because the more quality food that is less burdened with chemicals or, which is almost pure in the matter, there is such, means much more about health care, practically becoming a cure, not food.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197424	The next replicas of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197425	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dobrović, not long ago we discussed climate change in the assembly and discussed the Green Plan. Now that we're discussing agriculture in the context of the coronaryvirus, I think it's a good opportunity, any trouble can result in some new opportunity. It is a good opportunity to look at this set of measures at EU level, and it was about the Green Plan and it was about agriculture and it was about whether each country should recognise what its interest is, which are its indigenous products, how to develop it and everything else. And in this regard, it seems to me that from this coronaryvirus we should come out in a way that a new strategy that is being done and that will be really respected and the Green Plan, climate change and all that is because one of the, the coronaryvirus is certainly one of the consequences and climate change, but we through our agriculture and through adaptation to climate change and the Green Plan can make a serious step.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197426	Thank you. Dear Representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197427	Thank you very much. Yes, you're right, you got a good guess, or when you look at the Green Plan policy and where it is and how agriculture should go then you can very easily recognize that exactly the Republic is the ideal country for it, that these are not huge spaces under the same culture than that, are mixed cultures, that they are locally produced food, that they can be and less, that they are, and they tend to use mineral fertilisers and, and chemicalizing, therefore, products for the purpose of protection, therefore, a lot of what seems to us. However, we do not know how to valorize well enough, generally a lot of people buy and follow what and how they buy, going to markets that we hope will soon be in the Republic of Croatia now despite this opening. But some people rush into the centers and buy cheaper ones. So, he doesn't care if it's a Cypriot potato, but for the kuna, two of them will buy it or I don't know what, but here's everything going in the right direction, only we have to go there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197428	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197429	Thank you. Dear colleague Dobrović, let's move on. So we're on the right track. Green payments, organic production, shows that there does not need to be a production deficit in the Republic of Croatia a key problem. We don't have to have large quantities, but we can have a price for our product. If it's going into organic production then it should be a labour intensive production and production that's at a price, so we're going to substitute with that food that we're going to import, of course we're going to have to control it, but this one, this one, it's going to be competitive and we're going to be able to sell at the price that's expensive. I'm afraid there was no ice harvest this year. It is known that the ice harvest is much more expensive than the regular one. Because these are things that need to be produced and know how to represent and sell to European countries in order to increase the competitiveness of production, and then ultimately earn money, earn farmers and allow more people to work on, on agriculture. So if we go to mass production, there they are, of course, necessary and artificial fertilisers to increase the amount of production, but then that's a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197430	Thank you. Dear Representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197431	That's right, I think the great hidden advantage exists in joining the resistor. So you're saying we have to use mineral fertilisers, yes, but why don't we have 300,000 tons of compost, we can produce it locally from biodegradable waste generated right where food is consumed. Therefore, connecting the resistor in a way that converts it into a compost that then returns, and we know well that it is an ecological compost, practically clean and returns nutrients and organic matter, improving soil properties in terms of not only the quality of agricultural production but also the retention of goods etc., and it does not seem to be. Therefore, the minister has reason to meet with counterpart Minister Coric and agree on an urgent construction of a compost that would establish such a link. She's heading in the direction of the Green Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197432	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197433	Thank you very much. So, respected deputies, respected ministers, I don't know much about agriculture, so I'm a child of asphalt, my only contact with agriculture is when I watch "The Fruits of the Land" on TV. But I know what's going on in the field and this experience that I'm now experiencing as a Red Cross volunteer and a fan group, I know there's a great need for domestic food because people really are ordering it. I think it was a big mistake that the markets hadn't opened up before, so... One of the reasons was the safety reasons for the virus, so it's the main and so it's the only reason, but I think it's with volunteers who would work, so social distance, like. Here's the Bad Blue Boys volunteer in all the soup kitchens, so when these people go to get you lunch, so they're doing the order, and so could this one and in, at the markets. Here, here's my neighborhood in Spain, so with one invitation I could get 10 people who would work there every day and watch out, so at a distance and so could be in all the markets, so in the City of Zagreb work. Besides, you could have used these intersections. I don't know, in my neighborhood of Spain during, so summer these times exist at the intersections of stands that are dislocated, so from the markets, where it is, for example. One man sells watermelons, at 50 meters at another intersection, a man sells mandarins. I think those intersections could have been used for these O.P.G.s too, so that's where they sell the products and from this field of ours. In particular, here in one neighborhood, 20 such intersections could be used and there would be no crowd, there would be no possibility, so from the infection. So these proposals we're going to make and what we've brought out are well-intentioned, so they come from people on the ground, from the field, that these people want this homemade food. There is a greater possibility, in my opinion, of contagion in large shopping centres, although this and there are, therefore, taking care of order, but it could also be done on Croatian markets because this one, I say along with, so the order people would do and watch out for, I think it could be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197434	We have a replica of the respected representative Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197435	Dear colleague, you mentioned volunteers in the city that you belong to among them, who bring, supply people who are in need of supplies. It would be very likely that this activity would be one, one social treasure today that people feel willing to help because it actually makes people happy and it's a great thing. However, there are also green city gardens and probably some people planted something or would like to plant. Very likely help could also be arranged in this respect, which can have another added value, so the country exists, the water has, so the sun shines and practically doesn't even have to go to the store, but to build a local thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197436	Thank you. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197437	Thank you. A respected colleague, right in my neighborhood, so Spanish, there are these gardens, so people grow this one, so their vegetables. We'd probably like to, so that their vegetables don't go to waste and we could probably donate, so for those older people. So there's one thing in this crisis, but if people really showed one human face, if they had united in this fight, and I'm sure this proposal of yours would have caused, so good reactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197438	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197439	Thank you very much, fellow colleagues, MPs, respected ministers. Here, I'll take this opportunity to say a few things. Absolutely one of these things is that, if I were to support it, we all said this law today because I think it's very important that the things we can do together now and that we support the activities to get RH out of this situation as soon as possible, and in some ways to make it possible for the economy to function better after the crisis itself. It would be better for the ruling party to accept which of the proposals we have made. Tomorrow's a debate, it's already a bad message to argue after the vote. So, we have one order of law in the first row and then you have opposition laws coming in second row and we're going to vote on them who knows when and who knows where. We can literally do it that way here, here again because we don't know if we're going back here to Westin or if we're going to have a session in HS in two weeks. The more we had a situation today on the Committee on Finance, the more the Committee supported a law proposed by the opposition. I think it's not a bad thing for the Croatian public to know and to make it possible for the Croatian public to vote on the law tomorrow. I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to pass it on to the president of HS that we have a positive opinion of the Committee on the deferral of loans to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it would not be a bad idea to vote out and adopt it together tomorrow and show that kind of cooperation in a situation where, when the crisis is in the Republic of Croatia. This would send a quality message, and Vice President Bozinovic today said at a press conference of headquarters that the government will accept any constructive proposal, now I don't understand why this postponement of the loan doesn't accept when the parliamentary board accepted it, when the opposition wrote it, tomorrow we can discuss it and we can finally have it voted tomorrow and allow the citizens not to tremble about whether they will have to pay credit wars or not in the next year. So here's one of my appeals. He's bound by this law and by the fact that this is one of the crisis laws that we're adopting in HS, and that law, I think we should set ourselves up like that. And that would show, Mr Bozinovic would show that he does not speak at the press conference in the wind, if he spoke here we would accept the opposition quality proposal, have it on the table, the Finance Committee has accepted it and on this side there is no reason not to discuss it during the day tomorrow, and then either try to discuss it until the vote itself and then by voting this law we also confirm that we allow Croatian citizens the situation not to be burdened with credit duties at the time of the coronacrission. I believe that here I will convey this to the representatives of the HDZ Club that my appeal here will bear fruit and that HDZ will understand that they are not alone in the problem and that ultimately the opposition after 20 laws and initiatives have supported in HS I think it deserves at least this one that enables citizens to present relief to put on the agenda and vote. As for the particular agricultural stuff we've been saying, but here's another time I'm going to repeat, I want us to try and use the crisis to set ourselves up differently for agriculture after this crisis. The EUR billion is an annual deficit in imports compared to food exports, it is too much, it is something that is not good for Croatia. I would like the Ministry of Agriculture to, say, support initiatives as I have said, once again here I will highlight the virtual Zagreb salary which in a few days 25,000 users gathered after the cryings in the City of Zagreb closed and allowed people to exchange goods or agricultural products with direct contact, and that is how it should work. It would be good if, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture cared about such a project, not only in Zagreb but also in other Croatian cities. So there is a lot of space to promote agriculture together, and I hope it will be so, and once again I call on Vice President Bozinovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic to show that we are going through this crisis together. and that the proposals the opposition makes if they are already proposed and supported by the board in the Croatian Parliament can be voted tomorrow. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197440	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected agriculture minister Marija Vuckovic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197441	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Members of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to thank you first for this constructive debate, the proposals presented and indeed a common concern for the progress of Croatian agriculture, for the understanding of how important it is, and I am extremely grateful for that. This is where we started the debate with one thesis of agriculture at the time of the crown. The fact is that agriculture is really gaining importance in public debates, that it gets everywhere, but I also want to say, as far as this Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, even though the crisis situation is making faster decisions, to some intervention decisions that we wouldn't, of course, in a period of no extraordinary circumstances, maybe, most of these moves will come to terms with approval, some criticism, I have to repeat here on behalf of my entire ministry, on behalf of the entire administration which is now taking concrete strategic steps that the exceptional circumstances in strategic terms do not affect us, as quickly as we can, regardless of these circumstances and the strategy and new programming and proposals for changes of productively linked payments and changes to legislation that can be better, faster and simpler for users. It means our principle regardless of this and we consistently implement it. As for the measures here, it has been repeatedly indicated that the delay is good, but that it is not enough, that the programme of support of 50 million kuna is insufficient and that the Ministry of Agriculture needs to be done more. Let us not forget that all major horizontal measures by the Government are included in two sets of sectors of agriculture, fisheries, forestry and woodworking industries, where agriculture and fisheries with special funds and with special income support cannot be co-financed by the Social Fund. So it is not true that agriculture and fisheries do not have enough, enough support can always be better, but there is no need to convince the public of the incorrect, incorrect claim that there are no large measures of agriculture and fishing. This is because the Ministry of Agriculture is trying and how to contribute to these large horizontal measures does not mean that farmers are excluded from them. The measure of, a programme of 50 million kuna for micro and small producers is not the only one, we in the first set of measures announced new micro and small loans of approximately EUR 130 million for crafts and additional flexibility requirements in direct payments to our producers worth at least 100 million kuna, so we said, if approved there will be more. Also, a number of sectoral support for fisheries worth a total of perhaps if, with the approval of the Commission in one part, between 30 and 40 million kuna, but the proposal has already come out and respected Croatian suggestions. So these fishing support will also be 100 million kunas. So, having 400 million kunas of our additional support doesn't mean that we're not those set of 30 or 60 when both sets add up. As far as the land here is concerned, there has been a lot of talk today about both the law and the land and everything that has happened or hasn't happened in the last 20 to 30 years. So, the Croatian Government has also made significant steps in the past few years for both the use of support and the structural transformation of the use of rural development programme measures and the upgrade of legislation. It can always be faster and more. The Land Act goes with changes and additions to certain proposals and suggestions and the fact that it needs further acceleration, administrative discharge and resolution of some doubts. We started doing this before this crisis and the proposal to the Commission will go as far as I know by the end of this week as well as the Law on Agricultural Land and the Regulation on Forest Land and we will seek better, more effectively respond to the requirements of faster land allocation. Here it was.../incomprehensible/... so only one seems to me to be the claim made by Mr. Orepic's parliamentary representative regarding today's proposal to amend the Agriculture Act, which should allow for additional delays and a round-the-clock payment to farmers for requests for return. There are no frauds, there's not a lot of thieves, they're Croatian farmers, mistakes happen.../incomprehensible/... I've seen hundreds of them, I've cried for them to say so, I've cried for some of whom I couldn't help because the audits found this or that, they need help now and they need to provide them with liquidity. The passes issued by the Ministry of Agriculture are going pretty neat for now. Every day the truth comes up some problem, we try to solve it in the day, we cooperate well with the headquarters. So far, the Ministry of Agriculture has received around 19,800 passes and issued 16,000 passes. Someone here, don't mind me, said that and mocked with the possibility and announcements of exports to China. After 24 memos that we sent to the Chinese authorities for this problem, it is a veterinary certificate we are looking for before we go and for some other types of products. We don't dream of some big exports to China, but the task of this Ministry of Agriculture is to remove major barriers in all markets, especially in large markets, it can only bring us good, it's in the description of our work and we'll do it neatly and quickly. It was a matter of distribution centres, as you know in the mandate of Minister Tolusic, former vice president and Minister Tolusic, an action plan has been announced to build missing storage centres, logistics centres. This action plan was certainly proposed for funding under the next programming period because the resources for measure 4 from which this was to be financed mainly by consumption. If we get extra funding by the end of the year from the transitional provision, we'll start sooner. So there is currently an additional market analysis that needs to be confirmed and demand for such distribution centres, not only the technical lack of capacity compared to production, and we do not give up and move on one step at a time, we will try to be faster. Fisherys have started working under certain conditions, as regards the overall work of the market in agreement at the National Civil Protection Centre, the ban mechanism is slightly released day by day. We know that this has caused problems for our farmers, but they ruled out images that were one weekend when the markets were open. We all know that there is no intention of this government or the National Centre to reduce the availability of domestic products and that such a decision has been difficult and is being fired day by day. Foresting, here there have been remarks regarding measures that there are not all delays in payments, that is, of course, false. Both forestry and woodworking industries have been closely covered by the horizontal measures of the Government worth tens of billions of kuna, and the Ministry of Agriculture has sought to upgrade these measures with its additional measures, thus delaying the implementation of the small value-added commitments for the woodworking industry sector and delayed payments to the Croatian forests, trying not to violate the liquidity of Croatian forests at this time, because this is also a potential problem if it is being broken. If we need to keep responding, we'll try. It's sown for now as I said, it's going uninterrupted, and if there's going to be a problem, I hope it won't, we'll see. The strategy of agriculture, here someone mentioned a series of strategies that were being developed, in this segment is not a strategy for years and not for decades making it, we do it, we haven't slowed down a moment regardless of these intervention situations. The strategy as some kind of theoretical static document is certainly not welcome, we try to give it a dynamic note and we try to have a good implementation, a good and efficient action plan that will eventually be transformed into a future national development plan in 2012-2027. With concrete interventions, so far we're not late at all. We mentioned good examples of online platforms, web markets and an invitation to the Ministry of Agriculture to join to support such initiatives. After I announced that the ministry was setting up an online platform for digital sales, some of them appeared before, these are very good private initiatives of some public like in the city of Zagreb, but the duty of the Ministry of Agriculture was at these moments to try to establish a national platform. Someone mocked here for 30 days in a decision, it's just for caution, so the first module is already over we can let it go tomorrow, but we're thinking about problems that will arise, we're thinking about the fact that the National Ministry of Agriculture can't happen to advertise, say, a agricultural economy like it is happening on some other platforms with 20 product types, and that there are only two cultures in the ARCOD. We must provide complete and accurate information for Croatian consumers, and we now need to link this digital market to the decision made by the Government at the last session, which is clearly referred to by all public authorities to the consistent application of Article. 284. Public procurement law relating to the application of the criteria on freshness and shortness of transport and purchase in short supply chains which suit us. I also have to say that some suggestions although I understand how it came to them today simply don't go with each other. Don't mind me, but sometimes they're together like the concept of wooden iron. For example, direct payments are given a full envelope, and we ban imports, because these direct payments are financed mostly from the EU and I would like to say that, despite the circumstances, 3 billion and 50 million kunas of the planned 3 billion 850 million kuna have been paid for the last year, and some 3 relate to direct payments of 121 million kuna to sensitive sectors, and the remaining part up to 3 billion 850 for the IACS measures of the rural development programme. Now there's about 800 million left, and we started making decisions before 15. April, we were communicating 15. The grassland for a measure of 10 environmental measures then goes environmental, which is the largest part of that whole story and then the welfare of the animals. At the end of the balancing period is usually until 30.6. we will try to speed up, we have submitted a series of requests to the European Commission modelled in the first accepted proposals by the fisheries commissioners and I hope that the Commissioner for Agriculture will also respond positively to most of our demands which should be helpful in a significant way to Croatian farmers. As I said at the beginning we will intervene, we will make urgent decisions, but we will not give up structural transformation of Croatian agriculture. Everything else would not be fair to Croatian farmers, nor to Croatian consumers, and I call on our citizens, Croatian citizens to buy Croatian products to a greater extent, less transport, less km, greater freshness, less health risk for citizens. The Croatian Institute for Public Health confirmed that. Thank you for all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197442	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197443	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, here I would like you to tell us specifically, the last 2, 3 weeks and which measures have connected the consumers from Croatia and farmers who, for example, could not work on the sheets when they were closed. It means what specific measure the Ministry of Agriculture has made to help farmers sell their products, and citizens to come to fresh products, fruits and vegetables, cheese, dried products, etc. I'll tell you, for example, Zagreb's virtual plaque, I've told you today the wrong information he currently has 43,000 groups having members and daily over 150 publishing various products, manufacturers up there publishing. So this is for me a concrete help and a great honor to those who founded this site. There is concrete help for farmers and citizens. What did the Department of Agriculture do to this guy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197444	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197445	So, as I said, the Ministry of Agriculture has received 30 calls for cooperation and we will try to install all these platforms into our national platform for which we have decided and which I believe will be excellent. What exactly did we do? We have responded to the calls and disturbances of small dairy farmers and we are allowing the measure to disappear to a little more than 350 farms that have been threatened and that small milkers continue to process, while also needing in the food supply chain, those who are donated by intermediaries to be supplied with a fresh Croatian product. We also received a series of notifications especially from the vegetable and fruit sectors about potential surpluses, and we did indeed forward such notifications to the trade chains with which we had one meeting and 3 letters. We also made a decision making it binding on our contracting authorities to buy fresh products in the food supply chain. That's what we've been doing for the last 10 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197446	Is there a microphone? Mr. Bull, second replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197447	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture Land, you said you were working on a new law. Law amendments in '21, '22. where there are no 400,000 hectares of agricultural land owned by the state, clean, preserved but under the weeds. The fact I gave it 20 days ago, I warned you, so here you go because this way that's in Croatia is what I said to the kosara wheel. Everyone's holding everyone, no one's giving in. From the local leader, to the mayor, to you in the ministry, and the highest damage is to the peasant. Of the 400,000 hectares in two years since the law was passed, only 11,000 hectares have been allocated to the Croatian peasant. I ask you once again to urgently assign that country, if it does not want local leaders, the county will immediately throw out of that process because they control this local self-government. This is so inefficient, so embarrassing to the Croatian village and state that it is a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197448	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197449	About 450 available programmes have arrived at the Ministry of Agriculture, developed by local self-government units and in some cases due to the delay in the unit of regional self-government. We gave a little more than 240 consent, indeed a small number of tenders were published, but in these situations after half a year the rules were passed, so the programs were done, the documentation came out, and now, of course, the progress of the competition was probably followed, so there was not a single contest until the 10th month, and now there were 50 of them from the 10th month. However, I agree that the procedure needs to be accelerated not only on this law but also on the second, simplifying, digitising what can and that we have space. And as I said, the first proposal to the commission will go by the end of this week.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197450	Thank you, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, thank you very much, no more replicas, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197451	Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Agriculture, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 898. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. As Article 4 of the final proposal of the law has a feedback on the same, the Committee on Legislatives was manifested. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure will determine whether there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for the reverse action of the return provisions. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is estimated that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the reverse action of the provisions of Article 4. Final proposal of the Agriculture Act. Please, let's vote. Who's to this conclusion? Who's against it? Who's restrained? One is restrained. So 129 votes for and one abstention. I find that we have reached the proposed conclusion, so now we're going to vote on the law itself. What? Yeah, yeah. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Agriculture Act. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Who's restrained? Count the abstentions, please. And who's in? I find that most of the votes were passed by the Agricultural Law, 121 for and 9 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197452	Now we're moving on to the next item of the agenda, since I'm here to consult, a moment, thank you. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is, in fact, the final draft law No 829 Final proposal of the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Credit Institutions, i.e. number 830 Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, No 843 is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the final draft law shall apply, meaning second reading, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. With us is Mr. State Secretary Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic who will have an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, as has been introduced before you, are these three legislative proposals of the law all 3 were at the debate in the first reading at the 16th session, with the fact that the HNB Act and the Law on Credit Institutions adopted the Assembly on 21 February and this latter on 28 February. All 3 final drafts of the law have been drawn up with the aim of further harmonisation of the Croatian legal framework with EU regulations in the area of implementation of measures under the Republic of Croatia's action plan to join the European exchange rate mechanism EREM2 and the banking union. As regards the action plan, it includes the implementation of measures in the area of further strengthening the supervisory supervision of the banking system, or further strengthening the supervision of banks by setting up close cooperation between the CNB with the European Central Bank, the development of a macro-prudential, macro-prudential framework for measures aimed at loan users, and the resolution of banks within the banking union. Just to remind you, as you know, the banking union was created in response to the 2008 financial crisis by the EU. Because it has become clear that the problems caused by the high linkage between public finances and the banking sector can easily be spilled across national borders, and cause problems in other EU Member States. Therefore, the objective of establishing and establishing a banking union is to reduce the possibility that bank balances problems are negatively reflected in public finances and vice versa, which ultimately means that bank recovery costs would no longer be borne by the state but primarily by the owners and creditors, as well as by the single recovery fund. The banking union basically consists of 3 pillars, so only if you allow a brief reminder. Thus, the first pillar is a centralised system of bank supervision and started on 1 November 2014 and gives a new framework for the supervision of banks in the EU, made up of the European Central Bank and the National Supervisory Authorities of the Member States and which participate in the supervisory mechanism. Then the second pillar, it is a common system of bank recovery called the "single recovery mechanism" and complements this first pillar and makes it a single recovery committee as a EU-level resolution body. Then the "single recovery fund" as a joint recovery fund financed by the bank sector in the EU, as well as the "national rehabilitation bodies", and as you know with us, these are the CNB, HANFA and DAB. As regards the third pillar, he needed a common deposit insurance system, but it seems that the rules on the establishment of legal foundations between the Member States and the introduction of the third pillar will be discussed for even longer since 2015. So, as far as these laws are concerned, which we have on the agenda today and do not concern the third pillar, but I would only like to highlight the rules and procedures relating to the establishment, operation, management and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, they are regulated by the current law will remain regulated by that applicable law, hence the 2015 Deposit Insurance Act, and the Deposit Insurance System is governed by the State Deposit Insurance Agency and the Rehabilitation of Banks. As regards the final proposal of the CNB Act, it was necessary to review a certain part of these provisions, so that, in the context of the cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank and the bill proposal, the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in the context of close cooperation, and the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in cooperation with the single resolution committee as part of the second pillar of the banking union that complements, as I said earlier, the single rehabilitation mechanism. In short, he would teach only to present the basics of the bill that we spoke of during the first reading. Therefore, the CNB is foreseen to apply the European Central Bank guidelines instead of international financial reporting standards. The central banks that are not members of the euro system are given the possibility to apply, therefore, the national currency guidelines, therefore before the introduction of the euro, which were so far done by Slovakia, Estonia and Latvia, which later introduced the EURo, and currently used by Poland, and Sweden, even though they still have the Republic of Slovenia's national currency. The introduction of guidelines subsequently influences the need to amend the relevant provisions of the laws relating to the general reserves of the CNB and the calculation of profits and losses of the CNB as well as the need to introduce a category of revolutionary accounts, as well as reservations for risks. In this respect, only general reserves are formed within capital to cover the general risks of CNB operations, and according to the guidelines of the European Central Bank... the profits by exchange rate differences and changes in market prices do not enter in the profit and loss account report or do not enter in the calculation of the financial result. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the schedule of profits and coverage of the loss of the CNB is changed, which is now in proportion to the benefit of the state budget in a way that the income of the CNB is allocated to 80:20 of 20% goes to the general reserve of the CNB and 80% is allocated in favour of the state budget. In the loss of this new one, it would still first cover itself from the general reserves, and if the loss is greater than the sum of the general reserves and if it crosses the height of the general reserves, it would be covered from the profits of the coming years of course. In the event that the total capital of the CNB is reduced by losses from previous years over a longer period of time than the core capital of the CNB, the amount to the capital amount will be secured in the national budget in the next medium term. Furthermore, there are provisions regarding interest rates. It is now prescribed that when the CNB takes the funds and receives the deposit that that interest can be negative. The current CNB task, which has been defined as contributing to stability and the financial system as a whole, has been expanded in such a way as to achieve it through the implementation of macro-prudential policy. Then there's the question of the vault. On this issue, it is determined that the location, construction, construction of the vault itself and the vault business of the CNB are important for the financial, economic and security interests and defence of the Republic of Croatia. International reserves are defined as all forms of assets in foreign currency and precious metals, security checks for certain functions are introduced, authorities of the CNB shall be given the authority to conduct infringement procedures for which the supervision or supervisory supervision is competent and, with the agreement of the Single Sanitary Committee, adopt implementing acts. Certain powers that we had in the first reading of the National Bank's advice on this matter were added as well as the governor's powers mainly in the part and the implementation of macro-prudential policy and in the sense of the adoption of sub-legislative acts. As regards the first reading of this final proposal, certain nomotechnical amendments have been made in accordance with the proposals and observations of the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 15, amending Article 47, which regulates the schedule of profits and the coverage of losses, the provisions are complemented in the event that the total capital of the CNB is reduced by losses from previous years over a longer period of time and when it is less than the underlying capital, in such a way as to ensure the necessary amount to the level of the underlying capital in the national budget in the next medium-term period and to clarify what makes the total capital of the CNB, i.e. the capital of the underlying capital as a general capital of the general reserves, the revaluation accounts and the reserves for financial risks. As regards the Law on Credit Institutions, analogous to those standards that we had within this previous and part of the work of credit institutions, changes have been made in relation to close cooperation, then macro-prudential measures aimed at the credit user where, as the last time we stressed, we could take measures by the People's Bank to determine the maximum possible ratios of the value of the instruments of the insurance of the approved amount of credit when it assesses it. It can then determine and limit both the maximum amount of credit and income generated by the credit user, the maximum amount of payment of the instalments or payments and income, the maximum duration of the credit and the required connection for the method of payment of the credit. Therefore, related to these macroprudential activities previously completed by the provisions of the CNB Act. Then, unlike the current way of working when the Croatian Banks Association calculated, now the CNB is, on the basis of data that the delivery of credit institutions is, for regulatory purposes, calculating and publishing the national reference rate of the average cost of financing of the Croatian banking system, which is needed because of the importance of this, and the reference rate which serves as a index for determining the variable interest rate for consumer credits, so it is now in the jurisdiction of the CNB. The exchange of information on client links, if you remember the application of the General Data Protection Regulation there in May 2018, poses a problem concerning the exchange of data relating to the protection of personal data, is now regulated here by the provisions that this or this exchange is made possible within the banking system to better assess the client's ability and manage and manage credit risk. As regards the difference in the proposal for a law in order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of measures on a credit institution in proceedings against an CNB solution on the imposition of early intervention measures, the introduction of a special administration, the withdrawal of work authorisation and/or decision to open a forced liquidation procedure, the competent administrative court may not decide that the action has a delayed effect nor can it issue a provisional measure as in some cases where the system has been blocked when a certain bank would come into such a situation that it should or even be liquidated that certain measures that have now been in force in the current norm have blocked the procedure and this very blockade of the procedure could have led to the fact that the credit institution itself and failed to take measures itself or to obtain secured savings deposits if it were possible and this could result. This makes it impossible to do so, so the measures would be taken, and of course the party to the proceedings would have the right to press charges against the court and how the case ends. With regard to the party's right to plead on the basis of a recommendation from the European Central Bank, pointed out in point 4 of point 47 of its opinion of 25 March this year, the harmonisation of the provisions in accordance with the standards on procedures managed by the European Central Bank in case of an emergency supervisory decision, in which case the party shall be given the opportunity to show in writing the facts, objections and legal basis if they are relevant to that decision. In addition, the provisions governing the relationship between the variable fixed part of the total income of individual workers are complemented, and a provision on the publication of CNB information is complemented with regard to the publication of sanctions which, in the context of close cooperation, forms the basis of the European Central Bank’s instructions to the CNB. A transitional provision has been adopted according to which all procedures that have begun during the current norm will be completed according to this current norm and nomotechnical adjustments have been carried out in accordance with the observations and proposals of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. And in conclusion, as regards the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, the subject of this Act is therefore the 2nd pillar of the Banking Union or the common system of bank recovery, as I just said earlier, the single rehabilitation mechanism. It is also closely linked to this law that the Law confirming the agreement on the transfer and unification of contributions to a single recovery fund, which was only to remind the Croatian Parliament on 28 February 2020, and since this agreement had the character of the international treaty and there was also the first and second reading together, so that it is not synchronised now in terms of other readings of these legal norms. The relevant Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms regulates the rules, procedures and instruments for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, then the powers and tasks of the resolution authorities, and the establishment, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund and its management. This final proposal for a law draws closer to the implementation of Regulation 806 of 2014. The European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a single, uniform procedure for the rehabilitation of credit institutions and certain investment companies under a single recovery mechanism and a single resolution fund with a view to ensuring uniform financing and resolution of the banking union have been established a single recovery fund that is filled in during the period of 8g. Starting in 2016, and should reach a target level of at least 1% of the amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in all EU Member States, that amount is estimated at around €60 billion, is currently charged at around €33 billion, and with a note, as I was saying in the introduction, so the recovery fund is charged with the burden of banks. The proposal adopted by this law from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank becomes a participating Member State in a single recovery mechanism that provides a centralised mechanism for the resolution of all credit institutions established in the participating Member States. The centralized power of recovery within the single sanity mechanism is entrusted to the Single Renaissance Committee and to the National Renaissance Authorities as it was before in the previous law, so here it is, in this case, the CNB, the HANFA and the DAB. In the case of credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which the single resolution committee will become directly responsible or competent. Responsibilities and powers to act in the implementation of decisions will be granted to the CNB prior to the decision on recovery itself, and to the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks after the decision on recovery by the Single Sanitary Committee. The right to vote at the plenary executive meetings of the Single Sanancies Committee will have a representative of the CNB when it comes to the issue of the power of the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Savings Deposits and Banks, in accordance with the division of voting powers, will be taken into account, of course, the opinion of the DAB. The draft law provides for the obligation of the institutions to which the regulation applies, to the payment of contributions to the single recovery fund, and to the resolution fund managed by the DAB, and those contributions will be transferred to the single recovery fund. Furthermore, for the purpose of calculating the achievement of the target level of the Sanantia Fund, the amount of the contribution to be transferred to the single recovery fund as well as the funds to be transferred from the Sanantia Fund will be calculated in accordance with the recently mentioned Act on the approval of the transfer agreement and the unification of the contribution that it adopted for this high home just over a month ago. An obligation shall be imposed on institutions and branches of institutions from third countries based in the Republic of Croatia to pay compensation for the settlement of the administrative expenditures of the DAB. As for the expenditure itself, I will briefly do so, so here is the time I believe, and by the final proposal of the law, so as in the previous ones, I will accept the comments and proposals of the Committee on Law and are incorporated into the norm of the law. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. In the case of provisions on infringements of the institutions themselves, infringements are divided into separate points and are in line with the provisions of the normative part of the law, so that it can be easier to connect. The recommendations and enforcement of the decision of the UNSC shall also be further specified that, when initiating proceedings or infringements by the competent authorities, those recommendations must be taken into account, of course, also. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197454	You have several replicas, the first replica was requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197455	Dear Secretary, the people know that it is time, we all know that the time of the crisis is a crown, and you are pushing a persistent EURo, a persistent EURo, and in this way it cannot possibly be, we cannot in any way come to a conclusion, nor do we answer why to the most developed economy of the EU, Sweden, Denmark, the Czech Republic, and Hungary also do not want the EUR-o, you insist now, return that law. When this crisis is over, we bring a moratorium to credit, a year and a year, and we will talk about it, and when the crisis is over, then we will discuss, we will hold a referendum on the EUR and everything the CNB has to do and what it is doing, and in fact everything against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we also know in the case of Agrokor what happened around the currency and many other situations. One, one question, why is it that the most developed economies of the EU do not want to introduce the EURo?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197456	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197457	Thank you very much. So I would say in the introduction that, since we are all clearly in the problem of the coronary virus epidemic these days and that it brings us all together, both health and economic, it is clear that these legal regulations that we now have in the second reading may seem to be in another plan, but in the context of the very intensity in terms of the banking union and the 3 pillars of this same union of these norms do not necessarily mean the introduction of the EUR. Here we are talking about resuscitating credit institutions and vice versa, and when the third pillar comes in the context of the security of savings deposits. We have repeatedly discussed why some economies have decided to introduce or not introduce the EUR. Some countries have also entered the 1970s when neither in mind nor in mind any introduction, this entry into the EU, at least to us as a country. And when you mention Sweden, for example, it uses these guidelines of the European Central Bank together with the Poles, although it also has its currency. So these are different strategies, but we will never enter the EUR-o unless we meet the criteria. I'm afraid after these interventions about the current crisis we'll be beyond that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197458	Thank you. The second amendment has Mr. Schibol, a replica of pardon. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197459	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, it would be good if I had an amendment that would be accepted like this now, but it's not an amendment, it's a replica. I am interested in why this entry into the Eurozone is now being forced, especially during this crown crisis. So, for example, We have Bulgaria, which is in a similar phase as we do, Bulgaria further meets the criteria of nominal convergence than Croatia, but Bulgaria has just delayed its entry into the ERM II course while the pandemic itself is calming down. So I'm interested in what reason did this law come to us now in the assembly instead of focusing on the measures relating to overcoming this pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197460	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, not the amendment, but the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197461	Thank you very much. I wish we had the main concern whether we're going to introduce or not. All these legal proposals that I have mentioned now, as well as this previous agreement for the confirmation of the third pillar, have gone a long way before, before this pandemic occurred and as you can see from all the activities of the government and this high home that we have all directed our forces in this sense to preserve the health of our citizens and to try to secure enough resources to vitalize and maintain as much vital economy as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197462	Thank you very much. The third amendment, and I'm sorry, don't let time run yet, I agree that he was the first just probably not seen for, because of the monitor, I apologize, I don't write it, but Mr. Maras, here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment may be made later, but I will now ask my colleague and give the replica. What I am interested in, and probably interested in all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on moratorium on the rates of loans from our fellow citizens. So we all know what the situation is, Mr. Secretary of State, it's certainly a measure that you should have taken among the first in the Republic so that citizens who are out of a job who are now able to survive will allow a year of moratorium to somehow get on their feet and start working again, eventually be able to get those loans back. I wonder why there's no government response to that, and when are you going to do that? So, why shouldn't the citizens of the Republic of Croatia welcome Easter more peacefully than they will now, since they haven't seen any moves from the government, and wars are coming toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197464	Mr. Zrinasic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197465	Thank you very much. I, from your inquiry before I am experiencing an assessment of the government's measures so far, which I think may need to be recommunicated by someone else, not by a State Secretary who represents three legal regulations that have nothing to do with it, but let me say, however, that yours is not all that you may have received the impression that the Government is doing nothing, on the contrary. If all of this is looked at these days and there has been a vote on here in this high house, a series of legal norms leading in this direction, and one of these steps will certainly be as announced by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance as Vice-President of the Government as the next round that goes, heading towards the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197466	Thank you very much. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras, so we have to give him our word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197467	Thank you very much. In 238 he was injured, I didn't colleague state secretary said the government was doing nothing, I said here today that I would support the laws that were. And last week we also supported certain laws and we propose certain laws. My question to you was because there was no action on the moratorium on loans to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you understand that the moon is passing, that people are out of work, that there are payments coming, that they can't wait a month for the government to come up with those actions. That's what I was going to tell you, I'm interested in what position you're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197468	Mr. Maras, you know, it's been a while, you know very well that Article 238 doesn't apply to the promoter, you know very well. The motioner did not answer your question according to your judgment. That's right, I mean we can't, you can't do anything, you can't do anything. You can say that next time you're performing. But let's move on, as some have said before. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197469	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary Zrinasic, the Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is an excess of liquidity, they have 59 billion kuna of capital all of these came back about 15 years when they had only 10 billion kunas of liquidity and some 15 billion kunas of capital seem to me. And now after talking to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the bank decided to offer people moratories, but moratories that account for interest, those agreed interest rates, and which people will pay when the moratorium ceases to operate. So I ask you, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again sit with the banks at the table and try to convince them that these interests are not to be accounted for, and if these banks don't listen, will the Government then prescribe that the banks have to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197470	Thank you, too. Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197471	Thank you very much. As you remember when the government communicated for the first round of 63 measures among which it cited and the ones that you are now citing and when talking to business banks, it was not an impression that it would act the way you have now described it in the sense that it would move this or delay these deadlines of payment of credit obligations rather than that it would find it in a way that these same citizens would not be brought into an even more difficult situation. And in that sense, I think that even daily conversations are being held not only in terms of government as executive authorities, but there is certainly Croatia's people as power, as monetary authority as a very important lever in these and talks and arrangements to find the best solutions for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197472	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Lovrinović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197473	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State cannot be surprised that in a situation like this, a strong destabilization of the economic system of the threat of pandemic to health is not only for Croatian citizens but for the wider part, this government seems to be doing nothing to bring the euro into Croatia as soon as possible. Well, I don't know any other prime minister, the Prime Minister of any other country of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark, Sweden, they are now worrying about their concerns, affirming their national currencies are saving the economy, and he even said here in Parliament the other day that he's sorry and that he's just now seeing how bad it is for Croatia that we're not a member of the euro area, so I think it's just as amazing as if the government lives in another universe, as if you've fallen from Mars. We need kunas, we need to save the domestic economy, so stop being stubborn, get down on the ground, we need to solve our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197474	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197475	Thank you very much. And I don't know what to say but that in the given circumstances when great perception and with full right is directed at some other problems that are not our fault as the authorities or the people came to the Republic, so there are exceptional problems with the epidemic of the coronary virus and all these activities that the government is taking I think they're saying enough in this direction to take whatever is possible at a given time to make timely steps. As for the euro itself, this does not mean that the establishment of close cooperation and accession to the banking union necessarily means something bad to think about a long-term perspective, and since we will get the conditions to enter the exchange mechanism and introduce the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197476	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One question. Today we saw that the CNB has intervened with 2.25 billion euros in the last two weeks, which is a very large amount of their foreign reserves. We also see information that the finance minister has announced that he will be in charge of the domestic market. Now, the question is, since we very much need liquidity for Croatia, and we know that foreign exchange inflows will unfortunately be left behind this summer that there were 10 billion euros, do you have any information on whether the government of the Republic of Croatia will go to the euro market if the euro seems to need not only for the sake of the CNB but also to stabilise the exchange rate and do you have any information about it? Why? Because all this part of the amount created by the CNB is unfortunately not going to reach the economy, and that's the problem now. We have a problem with exchange rates and liquidity and I think maybe now it can be collected in the euro market of money to free the domestic kuna for Croatian entrepreneurs. So do you have any information that will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197478	Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197479	Thank you very much. Here's a recent finance minister you know very well that inside our house such all the scenarios are done in haste with all the simulations and views where money will be available. Of course, in that part, and I repeat, we want to actively include the CNB and in part its foreign reserve role, so the following days should be much clearer those steps that are feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197480	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we are, first of all, following in this part because this is a pandemic, so it has affected not only Europe but we can tell the whole world, I am monitoring the government's reactions primarily in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic because in Slovakia they are in the euro area, the Czech Republic is not in the euro area of their differences, so let's say a practical question. What do you think we lost by that, or what would be the advantage if we were in the eurozone? And the second part, just on the trail of what my colleague before me has said about maintaining the status of stabilising the exchange rate of kuna, do we have how much CNB I think that the Croatian government and the Ministry of Finance are serving the HNB lever to preserve this entire system, how much space is there or is there enough space in your opinion that we can hold a course at this level for three to six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197482	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197483	Thank you very much. A good part of your question would primarily refer to monetary authority, but indeed it shows how much they wanted to affect the rate in terms of lowering the reserve to the banks by 3% points, freeing more than 10 billion kunas in financial flows to reduce the rate in terms of the increase in the euro rate compared to the kuna. In that sense, for such activities, if we were in the euro area of course there would be no, but in some other monetary interventions we now have certain advantages in relation to the situation if we were in the euro area. So by combining all these mechanisms depending on where you're in a situation it certainly isn't unequivocal to say better is this, it's better that. So in some foreseeable future that doesn't have to be said tomorrow, we decided as a people to be EU members and to introduce the euro. And in that sense today we are also talking in the context of these three laws and entering the banking union system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197484	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Does he want to take the word of the board representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Marin Škibola, who will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197485	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Here is today in this period of crisis with the pandemic we are in the Croatian Parliament coming to amend and supplement the laws relating to the implementation of the euro into the Croatian monetary system. This is not good at all because the introduction of the euro is one process that requires the involvement of citizens, the inclusion of professions and the involvement of all other relevant actors in order to move in this direction at all to introduce the EURo. Therefore, these discussions in HS on the introduction of the EUR, and we know that there is a major crisis with the crown and that the eyes of the public are pointed at the crown is very bad, very bad that you have now chosen this timing for these laws. What we should say is that without a referendum we should not discuss these laws at all, especially when we know that all the polls, all the important polls, and one of the important polls was made by the Eurobarometer, so official EU polls say that Croatian citizens are against entering the Eurozone. So over 50% of Croatian citizens are currently opposed to the introduction of the EUR and thus access and the EREM2 course mechanism. Obviously, the Croatian government does not care, so they are not interested in the thinking of Croatian citizens, and during this crown, in some ways, the public interest that would be according to the introduction of the EUR from Croatian citizens to be referred to what is happening is somehow avoided and obstructed. Bulgaria and Romania are in similar stages as we are in the field of access and the EREM2 course mechanism. For example, Bulgaria has far better met criteria for nominal convergence than the Republic of Croatia. So Bulgaria has a much smaller, multiple public debt than the Republic of Croatia, has a much smaller deficit and has much less than some other elements that mean they meet the criteria of nominal convergence. Therefore, and ultimately, the Bulgarian prime minister decided to stop joining the EREM2 course mechanism by 2021, meaning the crisis with the crown does not go to their assessments. Because he needs to be aware that after this health problem with the crown, we are followed by a major global economic crisis. And the question arises how will the Republic of Croatia be raised in this global economic crisis, how the Eurozone itself will be set up, means the Eurozone members, and it is wise to wait, why force the rise in the Eurozone when we don't know how things are going to happen, I simply don't understand it, and we see that other countries are also being guided by this example. So Bulgaria stops, waits for what happens. It is a wise sovereign policy and I do not understand why this is being forced, especially when the eyes of the public are focused on these health, health problems, and today we should discuss here in the assembly some financial measures, e.g. which the CNB can make, rather than the measures to introduce the EUR. Also one news that is not so public-recognized is that Italy and France have asked other euro area member states to issue a crown bonus because of the coronary crisis. So, a corona of bonds where all euro area Member States would somehow take part of their scope in overcoming this crisis that will arise after a health crisis, after a health crisis, means overcoming the economic crisis that arises after this health crisis. And here, it is the most initiated by Italy, but also by Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria are strongly opposed to the proposal. And then the issue of solidarity is also raised, meaning EU Member States. Because we can observe this solidarity through the fact that we are now sending 20 medical personnel to another Member State and that is solidarity. Yes, it's solidarity, but it's minor solidarity. So this kind of crucial thing is seen as how homogeneous the EU is. And the EU is not homogeneous, but very heterogeneous, because we see that certain euro area Member States such as Germany and the Netherlands do not want to help Italy, France and some other countries such as Spain in overcoming the economic crisis in such a way that they too bear part of the economic problems that these Member States will have. It should be said that the CNB has intervened, it intervenes most in maintaining the stability of the exchange rate, maintaining the kuna, but has not intervened in the context of greater monetary involvability, means that it starts, to start with the primary emission available to it. So this primary show, it's called the economic term "ex niil" creating the possibility, creating the money, that's exactly what America did. So Trump pushed a certain amount of money through his Federal Reserve Central Bank and passed it on to the citizens' accounts and to the accounts of medium and small enterprises. Why did Trump do it and why do some other countries do it? Because they are aware that this is the period when big state spending will be needed. So this is the period when the state will have to be betrayed, very generous in that financial sense, and that takes money. How do you get that money? It's either borrowing or creating. Some Member States, not only of the EU, but also of the world, are moving through the printing of their own currency and thus helping the economy. My opinion is that this is a much better direction because we will be in charge of huge sums of money, and these international financial institutions, banking institutions, private institutions when we are in charge, they will also ask for something in return. Mostly what international financial institutions are looking for in return, such as the International Monetary Fund, which has been tried in all other countries, many other countries are seeking deregulation, demand a reduction of the public sector, means firing, saving, wage reduction means these financial institutions are going in this direction to privatise everything, that the state no longer has any authority, and then raises the question which is the role of democratically elected governments in the elections when all power is concentrated in these narrow financial centres. So, then we don't need to have any choices at all, we can put a technocratic government there that was in Italy, put this Maria Montia and then let him, let him run that policy for us, and this is all a game that will end up very badly. The CNB has reduced the mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% so it opened up to the banks that potential, so it opened up the credit potential so it's going to have a lot more capital now and the banks really won't feel this crisis. So the banks certainly won't feel this crisis, but they're waiting for the moment for this crisis to pass now, they know they'll all be forced to borrow from the banks and then they come into effect. Therefore, banks will benefit the most and certain large corporations of this crown, and they will certainly and certainly use this crisis to accumulate power and to actually centralise that power and do so by these measures. So the banking union is just centralizing power, so it's just centralizing power and all of them, these other institutions financial that aren't in that banking union scheme are falling out of any game. So we should finally come up with a model of taxation of financial institutions because financial institutions must contribute to Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197486	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mrs Vesna Pusic, who will speak in front of the GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, 3 laws, CNB, credit institutions and the rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment companies. All 3 laws should not be ashamed and justified in my opinion at all, all 3 laws go towards accelerated alignment with the rules of the European Monetary Union and an accelerated preparation for the introduction of the EUR. As many have said, of course, we don't know what the world will be like after the crown of the virus, what will happen, anything can happen, no one could have predicted the same thing. So the final decision to join the European Monetary Union, the moment of entry, will be made at the time of the introduction of the EUR, but these laws are prepared for it. It didn't start today, it began partly by our entry and signing the accession contract, but it actively started if you remember I don't know now in mind when it was exactly, but I think it has a year of that presentation of the whole strategy of Croatia's entry into the European monetary union and the introduction of the EUR and since then it's kind of been a project that it's realized. So he hasn't started now, and he won't even finish now. In other words, the fact that we are harmonising the legislation that has made a note of the Bene and many countries, namely not many of them because there are not many of them, but some EU countries that do not have the EUR and have not finally introduced the EURo have harmonised their legislation with, in this area, the rules of the European Monetary Union. The truth is that it's my impression, too, and I have to say by talking in GLAS about it, our impression is that one of the reasons why it's accelerated is that you'll be able to confirm it or disprove it. One of the reasons why this is being harmonised so quickly is the Croatian interest in obtaining access to the guarantees and financial instruments of the European Central Bank and the recovery fund, which we will need, the EUR will need especially without, in this crisis and without the tourist season, but otherwise after the crisis has passed, and will pass and after people do not work as long as they are not, we will see how long it will last but certainly every day is a long and burden, this type of assistance, and that kind of intervention will be absolutely necessary and I see no reason at all, first why we should be ashamed of it and secondly that we are interested and secondly why we would deny ourselves the possibility of taking advantage of it. So, to have access to all these let's say the financial instruments available within the European Monetary Union. These are not the crown laws, of course, it's the truth. Although the fact that harmonising allows us to be able to work more closely with the European Central Bank after the crisis can certainly help us, but in a strict sense these are not the crown laws and here as one footnote I am asking, we are not against these laws, we are for these laws, but why do we not have concrete corona laws here that we should have? As a result, many of the things that people have said here, I will not go into details about it now, but from what my colleagues have said it is clear that neither here in the Parliament is the situation of whether there is a moratorium on the repayment of the loan, there is no, whether the moratorium will then be paid interest on these loans, so that all of this will look expensive, and we should also have one package of financial laws that would focus on the crown crisis so on this situation. These aren't except in this circumstantial sense that I mentioned at the outset. Therefore, these are not laws with limited duration, such as all those relating to the crisis, they are permanent, they bring additional competences, rules and structure regarding the adjustment of the CNB to cooperation with the European Central Bank and the rehabilitation funds, and they are putting Croatia in the direction of putting Croatia in that specific position of candidates for entry into the European Monetary Union. What actually seems somewhat unusual to me is that on the one hand the independence of the CNB is emphasized, especially in art. 4th is something that otherwise exists and is guaranteed, however, it is then particularly taxing its independence in 12 concrete areas or policies. On the other hand, the same law also defines articles which cease to be valid on the day of the introduction of the euro, a total of 19 articles either fully or partially concerning it, including that same article. 4. which is now expanding, which now defines the independence of the CNB in 12 very specific areas or policies. This article ceases to apply, therefore, to all these tax-listed independences cease to be valid with the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia, as regards the independence of the CNB, and this raises the question why they are now, with one law which de facto prepares Croatia for entry into the monetary union, why these 12 areas are now particularly stressed by water. In particular, relations between the CNB and the European Central Bank are regulated where the behaviour and position of Croatia are defined as close to what would be our status if we were a member of the monetary union. The behaviour and resolution of credit institutions and cooperation with the European Recovery Fund is defined, I think it will be a particularly important topic. There's also a definition of violations, so I don't want to go into those details right now. Reading the laws, reading some of the dates on which it is referred here, would be concluded even though I have to say it nowhere, it writes explicitly anywhere, but it would be concluded that some target date for Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union is, in other words, the introduction of the euro in 2024-2025, from this regulation proposed here. So, it's 4 to 5 years from now, where we're going to be and how things are going to look 4 to 5 years from today is a question, we can't predict it at this point, but if what I'm reading from these proposals of the law is that it's 2024 or 2025. then it's certainly not something that's right in front of us, we can say it's pretty fast, but it's certainly not something we're not going to have a chance to discuss yet and we're not going to have a choice yet. Since GLAS considers Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union to be a good goal for 4 to 5 years, we will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197488	Thank you, too. Mr. Scibola answered. Here you go, replica. ... Stanku? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I make mistakes with you every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197489	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Youth List Club because I don't think we should be discussing the introduction of the euro today, we should actually discuss the measures that will overcome this crown crisis both in health and in economic terms. Therefore, using this situation where the eyes of the public are directed at the crown crisis for the introduction of the euro is extremely immoral and extremely incorrect towards Croatian citizens because Croatian citizens are mostly against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone and all relevant statistics show this. Therefore, using this distraction now means using when the public is focused on other problems to push the laws to introduce EUR is a very bad message to the Croatian public, especially when we know that the countries which, meaning EU Member States that are also approaching the Eurozone have delayed this path like Bulgaria, so Bulgaria is in the same situation, but Bulgaria has delayed the entry into EREM 2 course mechanism until 2021. Because of the crown of the crisis, and Plenkovic is trying to push us into the Eurozone urgently, although it is not wise at all, although it is not positive and useful for the Republic of Croatia at this time because it means that we will turn all sovereignty into the hands of the European Central Bank, and we see that at present the central banks are key to defeating this crisis through an independent monetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197490	Another break, I guess, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197491	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia and the Living Wall I'm looking for a break of at least 5 minutes to consult because we simply can't understand that at this time when we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow because we're having problems with the pandemic of the virus, when other countries are shaking, above all Italy where it is at the heart, but also other countries as soon as this crisis is over, it's going to be a difficult, economic crisis. The majority owners of banks in the Republic of Croatia are Italian banks and Austrian banks. I simply cannot come to myself and respected citizens that the prime minister, the Prime Minister of our government, is pushing so much, insisting on the introduction of the EUR, while all other governments and their leadership are now standing by, watching what is happening, there is, for that time. We need kunas now. We need our central bank now. And what does the Prime Minister want? So he wants to transfer you see responsibility from yourself to Brussels, to Frankfurt, to this institution, to that institution. Well, that's not how you run the country. He said here the other day, please, tell us, you see now how bad it is that we are not members of the Eurozone and that we have not introduced the EUR-o. Why? To beg there for, according to Frankfurt, to give us a billion, two, and here from their central bank, we need kunas, we can borrow as much as we need. We don't need this servant policy. We want a sovereign monetary policy, economic policy, and we want to exploit our central bank that we have. And now it's coming out what we're saying. The other day there's an English central bank, 200 billion pounds will buy state bonds directly. Well, she's a national, she's a central bank of that state. I call upon citizens, if there is nothing else, nothing else possible, to defend our kuna in a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197492	Thank you, time. I'm approving a break of 18 hours and 16 minutes, so you and Mr. Schibol can consult. No, Bull didn't ask. [[I Bulj, and Bulj.]] THE PURPOSE We'll continue to work after the meeting. Mr. Miro Bulj will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197494	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia in the Eurozone, the laws that have been passed here before us at the moment when the crisis over the crown shakes the whole world, and mainly our neighbours, and mainly the economic situation, the economic situation where people, all EU citizens, and so the Republic of Croatia feel insecure and of course we see that at a time when the Republic of Croatia holds the presidency of the EU, I don't know, in the last 10-15 days if anyone has mentioned that at all, that the Republic of Croatia is the EU chairman, which means that all members have withdrawn themselves, we see the case in solving their problems and, of course, that here, the Secretary of State will question what I am as a parliamentary representative and interested in. First of all, I see this moment, as I said, that all the members have retreated themselves and watched each and every one of them after washing their fingers, not by washing each other's hands by looking at their own interests, we see here and here we see the case in Italy that was happening, there was not some solidarity of the strongest European states. We see that many politicians, mainly in our neighbouring Italy, are so disgusted with the solidarity they are calling on the EU, and the Republic of Croatia is presidencies, I see that they are removing flags from institutions, offices from the EU because it is simply such a mistrust. And now with the law pushing the EUR in the Republic of Croatia at the time of this crisis, it is minimally, slightly said hypocritically and unculturally respected secretary because I don't know, I don't know why now with these laws, when we see that the foundations of the country have been mired, and the foundations of the EU, and I literally don't know if there's anything more to connect the EU than maybe financial lobbies and banks that want to control continue to preserve that monopoly. My key question to you as a man from the ministry, which is why there are no other countries that are significant before us in the EU, which are significantly more economically and economically advanced than we are, for example. Sweden. Why didn't Sweden introduce the EURo? Why didn't Denmark do it? A much richer state? Why isn't Hungary? Why isn't the Czech Republic having big economic growth? I don't see any reason why we're going undercover at this time of the economic crisis, the health crisis that caused this economic crisis, when this health care goes through, we're going to see just how many effects this crisis is going to have, I don't know what the reason is. I think it would be the most honest thing to pull this off, and ultimately who should decide on all this, ultimately on the EUR, entering this, essentially this introduction of the EUR? In the end, it would be up to the people to decide. He can't be aware of Governor Vujčić, he can't count on the prime minister and their politics. They were not given so much legitimacy by the people, and neither was this parliament. So I think that in this crisis we're going to solve the problems we have, which is also in power, and among other things, the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it's a moratorium on the implementation and moratorium on loans of a year, I think that law should have been today. The opposition is that, the Most Independent Lists proposed it, the SDP as an opposition also suggested it. I don't see any reason why these laws aren't here for discussion and that tomorrow we vote on it and that our citizens have a quieter time when Easter is. Here I apologize, SDP and counterpart Alexic also moved, and MOST also proposed this moratorium bill on loans and the moratorium also put to effect. So, at this point when banks are liquid, when, when they cheaply placed money, experts tell me in conversation with them that this is a huge difference from the crisis that was before 2009 from now on. Then there was no money on the market, now there is. that banks are liquid. So, I would ask you here to have this cowardly egg that you're running around as the Government of the Republic of Croatia along with Governor Vujcic to pull this agenda item, because this is for a much wider debate, these points are for discussion with the people who debate this public i.e. a public debate that will last longer and, of course, the people ultimately decide on this referendum. I don't know why in the Republic of Croatia when the crown crisis is all closed, everything is allowed except domestic markets. It is allowed here we see now and the Law for the introduction of EUR preparation, it is allowed for teleopers who are foreign to set base stations, no one interrupts them, until people are allowed markets, they are not allowed at 2m to go to church or even to Easter. But the teleoperators and you who are lobbyists of foreign banks, the EUR with the help of the CNB are pushing this now, and people don't smell like 2m difference or 5m difference, no matter, for Easter. You can't open up the blizzard, but this law is so urgent that it's gonna get us out of the Vujčić visionary and it's gonna save us from this, uh, introduction of EUR into the Republic of Croatia. So now that the state, here we are chairing, I repeat, when in the last, we chair the EU, when in the last 15 days it has been mentioned that we are the EU's chairman? Niko, all the states shut themselves up and mind their own business. You're the only one... A race in the Brussels corridors. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll give you when they see you, they'll give you everything you have. They'll give you anything worse, don't worry. Look at the Italians as far as they are... not a meaningful secretary, they'll give you Euro sacks like in agriculture what they couldn't do to us, just as a market we serve them. Therefore, I think you withdraw this law, these cowardly eggs that you push us into a crisis when the Croatian people are dismayed, freaked out, when they fear for their health, the whole nation. Don't beat the cowardly eggs into this time, now here's what, 6:30 a.m., come out nice and pull these laws. Put the Moratory Act on the record, give me the law to interrupt the performances over all the performances, and most of all here I see this fellow Scybola, I think I'm thinking of a savings credit association of Raiffeisen banks that won't sleep peacefully in this crisis. They've had a crisis a long time ago, and they don't behave like this savings credit cooperative in their own countries. He can't do that to Hungary, and he can't do that to his country in Austria because they're criminals there. He can't treat our citizens that way. When they have had all the property that their great-great-grandfathers and dids have built for centuries, they will take away their property, and they will never be able to repay that loan because these loans have been so unlawfully made. The CNB is silent. They're pushing the euro now, they'll save you. Instead of you and the Croatian Bank seeing ways and models how to finance this system now, with this money that has the CNB. People's, it means people's money from buying bonds to ways of other funding and helping the government in these measures that should be much sharper. So once again, I do not understand, nor can I understand, that at the moment when the whole nation is, the whole of Europe is, but the entire Croatian nation is in fear of health problems. In isolation, people can't go from municipality to municipality, literally from village to village, people don't go to jobs. You push this law when I can't, I said and I'll say it, I can't go to church for Easter no matter what the measure. Two metres from each other, this is how they don't smell. So we can't do that either, we can't go to the domestic markets the same way that we stick to measures. Wherever it comes to domestic matters, our interests, our citizens, it can't be done, but you can push this into the euro. That's what you do very well. How long have you been paid for this since the money crisis is the EU's chairmanship. So look at the Italian neighbors who send messages to EU leaders. The flags take it off, they go down there, they roll it up, and then they take it down. And you now, you are calling for that and such an EU that is fragile now. No Schengen, no, every single one of its borders has been closed. You can't go through normal now, how you're gonna get through. And we don't know what's going to happen, but this law is a coward's egg, and don't throw this coward's egg into the nest at the moment when the people are in fear, freaked out, in fear, and you can trick whatever you want, and you won't. No matter what is not popular to say now, the triba worship you, you who have brought us into these problems where Croatia is not self-sufficient, now the triba worship you, the triba clap every night from the window. No, you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197495	Mr. Ivan Lovrinović will speak in front of the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197496	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I especially welcome you, dear citizens. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on credit institutions, on the rehabilitation of credit institutions in the context of the formation of a banking union, the EU banking union, as well as changes to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. You see, Croatia is already ten years ago the constant push towards the EU that was the key explanation for us citizens, we will be better in each area, we will be better in agriculture, today Croatia barely produce half of what it once produced. It'll be better in finance, you see 92% of the banks sold to foreigners, interest rates have been the most in the past 10 years, we've remedied them with 50 billion kuna, we haven't recovered anyone so expensive, etc. Dear citizens, do we have reason to believe that entering the European Banking Union of Croatia will make our money safer in banks in Croatia or not? Well, I've given up the previous concept of exposure, so I'm going to tell you something now to see what's really going on there over the Alps in the north because the EU is working, there's a division across the Alps where these over the Alps look high and they think we're down half lazy, lazy, wasteful, etc., and so on and so forth. Now, let's be specific, you know that we from the party change Croatia do not like hollow stories, forgive this expression. Were our deposits and savings safer in such a banking union? Here's an example, the biggest problem not only of the EU banking system, the euro zone, but of the whole of Europe, and possibly of the world is Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. And do you know why? It is the nightmare of Angela Merkel, the German government, the German Parliament and the people, as well as the European Central Bank. Why? Because Deutsche Bank had become one of the largest, practically hedge funds in the world 20 years before 2008, so 15 years ago, it became one of the largest, practically hedge funds in the world. At one point she had $76,000 billion, I repeat $76,000 billion in financial derivatives, as it is said professionally. It fell to 46, now about 30,000 billion, and no one living in Germany knows how to save that bank and the commercial bank, but the far greater problem is Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank is a time bomb under the German economy and state, and thus the Eurozone. Now, when you and Mr. Plenkovic and your government convince me that this problem with Deutsche Bank will be resolved and that it will be good, then I will support this law. And secondly, this is, Lady God knows how to solve the problem with Deutsche Grandma. You see, I came here to the Parliament of dear citizens to speak arguments, professionally, not to invest in you, but to face an open problem. You yourself assess after what I have told you whether or not our deposits and yours would be safer in the Eurozone, in that EU banking union. We live in a world where financial institutions have become the most dangerous part of the economy, the world economy. Why? Because that's where it's thought in the neoliberal doctrine that money should be made money, lex money made money, and that's what came the day to collect it, that's what ended it. Unfortunately, a lot of the world is going to get hurt, the economies just because of this. Another example, Italy. Italy is the largest owner of Croatian banks, then Austrians. The Italian banks in their assets have about EUR 700 billion in Italian debt, Italian government liabilities, 700 billion in total of 2200 billion in total public debt. Imagine tomorrow starting to shake Italy, which will be with their banks, so they are the owners of the largest part of Croatian banking. My people, it's time for deep thinking, but based on the arguments, not on ideological approach, jump, or media propaganda that is spreading these days. And what I'm particularly concerned about as a man and a representative is that a citizen is surprised or afraid that this crisis, the coronary crisis, is being used, you see when people in houses are in fear, that here when no one thinks, that some laws are being pushed here to get past it as soon as possible and to get the RH into a fast train towards Greece. All of you who advocate the introduction of the EUR in this situation, are you people aware of your wishes? Beware of your wishes. Think carefully, it's not just about you, it's about our children, our future. Now it is time for the kuna, for our central bank and for the CNB to show that the Croatian people and banks are. What did the English Central Bank, or their government, do a week ago? They, they will broadcast, they have already broadcast, 200 billion government bonds in pounds and will buy them directly from the Bank of Finland. You see, the neoliberal doctrine has so far placed and preached that the central bank must be completely independent of the state and the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because God's country needs to be expelled from all segments, and if the state wants to be in charge of business banks, let them pay for it. You see, that's a great explanation. In these situations, however, it is quite expensive to force the state to be in charge of business banks, it is equal to suicide, because a country in a situation as difficult as it is today in the EU and the Republic of Croatia and elsewhere should exclusively be in charge of its central bank. All those who today, and I hear here, are looking to be in charge abroad, so you people are the same, so you're here about 15-20, so you've learned to rule on debt. The CNB can grant loans in kunas as long as it takes. If it's about foreign exchanges, we have a net foreign exchange reserve of EUR 17 billion, we don't need them. But as a man, besides being a 30-year-old politician. It deals with international finances and monetary policy and the international economy, and now the CNB has entered a phase where it will decide where it cannot fast two goals. Which one? It can no longer maintain a stable exchange rate and such major interventions towards the economy. One, or one or the other. We from the Party Change Croatia and our economic experts, we strive to change the priorities of the goals. In the first place, saving production and employment. On the second, third, stability of exchange rate prices, etc., etc. That is why I call for reason, I call on the Government to refinance all debts of the general government on the domestic market. That's when I came to the assembly three years ago. Some of you laughed here, and now you'll have a Czech. In order for us to do this, I asked the Government before 3 years ago, to abolish the foreign currency clause or to translate all debts, whether in bonds or loans made in the Republic of Croatia, and to tie to a currency exclusively into kunas. And my fellow citizens to ask you a question, and both your colleagues and colleagues in the assembly. The world is shaking, the Eurozone is shaking which can fail, as is this EUR-o project, it is always a real danger. If you have EUR 1,000,00 or EUR 10,000,00 and the euro is ruined, where you will replace those EUR and who will pay you the equivalent of my fellow colleagues and colleagues. One technical child question, but think about who's going to replace you? Do you want to maybe go to Germany? Do you want the RH? It's the money of a nonexistent state. There is no state, the EU is not a state. So it's time of the knowers, the determined people, the state's moves and we introduce, we defend the kuna, it's our currency we take advantage of. Our central bank. [[/Intruder: Mr. Lovrinović's time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197497	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197498	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have before us 3 Laws amending and supplementing different laws, one on CNB, two on credit institutions, and I propose as a representative of the SNAGA Party the amendment to the CNB Act and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act. First of all, because there is no direct application of the collective judgment, so people who have the right on the basis of a collective verdict to exercise their rights forced to seek their rights, these courts last 4. 5. Six years old, some will die before they reach their own money, and accordingly I suggest some changes to speed it up a little bit. I will first read these amendments exactly as I propose them, and then in the Law amending the CNB Act, I propose that they be in Article. 89. add a sub-assembly. The 10th vote, which refers to the tasks of the CNB, would thus be that one of the tasks of the CNB would be to require credit institutions to act in accordance with a enforceable collective ruling relating to a specific credit institution if the collective ruling found that the credit institution damaged consumers by applying unfair contractual provisions. Also in the amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions in Art. 11. I would like to add to Article 4. that, analoguely to these amendments in the CNB Act, the CNB is competent and obliged to impose on credit institutions the conduct in accordance with a powerful collective ruling relating to a specific credit institution if the collective ruling found that the credit institution damaged consumers by applying unfair contractual provisions. Collective judgments are declaratives, they say banks have or some other traders have done so and that and that, it was wrong, it was unfair and therefore it is not valid and because these traders are not worth it now have to pay the consumers the money they paid on the basis of these some unfair contractual provisions. And on the basis of such a declarative judgment, consumers have the right to ask in courts their own money. However, the State may, however, and should and should go further than that, and should go further than that, Directive 93/13 in Article states. 8. which says that in order to ensure the highest level of consumer protection, Member States may adopt or maintain the strictest provisions compatible with the Treaty in the field to which this Directive relates. In other words, they can go beyond what is prescribed to be achieved in a way that can be collectively protected, and then, on the basis of a collective of a powerful verdict, they can determine how to systematically damage consumers. That's how I personally confirmed the European Commission last year in September. In May, I asked for an answer to the question of whether the Republic of Croatia could, on the basis of a collective ruling, pass a bill that would systematically damage all consumers in such a way as to order banks to return unfairly acquired money and the European Commission has confirmed to me that the Republic of Croatia can do so. I quote part of the European Commission's reply: The EU Court of Justice has also confirmed that it is in accordance with Article. 8. Directive 93/13, which I have just quoted, Member States may provide consumers with a higher level of protection than those provided for in that Directive. Directive 93/13 therefore does not prevent Member States from introducing in national legislation an obligation under which traders are obliged to return to consumers on the basis of contractual provisions considered unfair. Accordingly, I propose amendments to the HNB Act and to the Credit Institutions Act, that the CNB be the most professional body in this regard, to make a certain commitment in the form of a decision, or to order banks to act according to a collective verdict because banks did not act as first in the executive part of the collective judgment, and the executive part of the collective judgment is very simple to say. The 10th rulings, banks are not allowed to behave in the same way or otherwise in the future, and after the ruling became final, the banks did not stop acting as such, but continued in all credits where they did not contract interest rate change parameters to continue to apply an unfair interest rate, and in loans not converted from CHF to EURo they continued to apply increased CHF rates, and by collective judgment they should not do so. I therefore propose these amendments that are very simple and that would finally require the CNB to behave in accordance with its role that the CNB has never acted on before, unfortunately. Furthermore, what I may be missing in the Credit Institutions Act, but I didn't propose anything, is a commitment to banks, credit institutions to implement a moratorium on the credit obligations of non-equity citizens and non-learn businesses at this time of crisis in such a way that the moratorium is not applied to interest, agreed interest. The banks sort of listened to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which apparently talked to banks about moratorium and the banks offer consumers moratorium, but these moratories are such that they account for agreed interest and they reach after the moratorium has stopped. This increases the obligations of citizens who are in crisis anyway. I appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the government of the Republic of Croatia to talk to the banks again, to get them to offer moratories with no interest for 3+3 months. I, with the SDP, propose a moratorium law that would be 12 months, but here's some government 3+3 months if the crisis continues to be half a year in total and that citizens who are not liquid can temporarily stop paying their annuities without accounting for agreed interest. Because the moratorium they offer banks is a common moratorium, it's nothing new, it's banks before offering people who come into crisis when they ask for it. So that's not it. The other thing to do is enable moratorium to leasing, leasing houses. Now they're threatening people by taking away their resources for work, bus, I don't know, other means of transport that are under Leasing, they can't drive, they can't make money, they can't pay off Leasing, they'll take away his vehicles, and that's what needs to be prevented, we save those people who deal with transport. So Leasing is also one, one part of the system that needs to be covered by a moratorium, also without paying fees and interest. And finally, the last thing I read in "The Morning List" on Friday night at 21:30 is an article saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a break, a delay in the execution of a pardon, for 3 months, and in this impasse, there will be no heavy interest charges, so a delay in both the tight interest and the deblocking of citizens' accounts so that they will have full amounts of their income and that is certainly a very good thing if that happens. What I miss about what I read is what's going to happen to companies that are now suspending part of their pay due to performance. I don't see that part being solved, that it's being prepared as a solution because the Financial Assets Act does not include this situation where the company suspends the worker from part of the salary. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and to make this solution comprehensive, to definitely stop for, to stop all executions, not to, to, to avoid tightening interest and to refer to the tasks that go through the FINA and to the tasks that are dealt with through the employer in a way that it suspends part of the salary and pays it, and pays that part to the believer. I hope that this will all be resolved as announced, and I welcome that approach to solving the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197499	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Boris Lalovec, who will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a united debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the CNB Act, then the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, and the Law on the Rehabilitation of Credit Institutions. So, all of this would be fine, the SDP will support these laws and means there are no problems, this part of the EU alignment. However, today a fundamental question is being raised, what is a colleague of Bulj and what we have heard today, about the survival of the EUR and the Eurozone, that is, in the way they behave today. Honestly, with all the support we provide, it will depend on how the Eurozone or Eurozone members, or the entire European Commission, will treat the Republic of Croatia. We, in front of us in the coming period, will certainly need a lot of European funds in the country. Today we saw that the CNB with a response of about EUR 2.2 billion in the last 3 weeks, their foreign exchange reserves are about 19 billion, which means if at this rate we spend foreign exchange reserves we're about 3-4 months away, as far as the CNB foreign reserve is concerned. On the other hand, we expect every summer to receive €10 billion inflows, which stabilized, strongly stabilised the course. We won't be able to make this summer half that amount. It certainly depends, I recently said that the liquidity of maintenance in the system that the state needs to fulfil its obligations within the time limit it can reach better liquid assets, as well as in other words, depends on what the EU budget ratio will be to our Croatian national budget. That is where all EU solidarity will actually be seen. If this money is to come to the EU, from the EU budget, for, from the Social Fund for Payment, that's what we read in the media somewhere that the European Commission has approved some EUR 100 billion, out of which EUR 1.1 billion goes to the Republic of Croatia to pay these salaries, these EUR 8.5 billion, if we have to wait until New Year's Eve, the question is how does the Croatian Government endure such pressure. On the other hand, it is necessary to see that the European Commission, or from the media, has actually seen that they have said that they will flexibleise the use of EU funds, which means that it seems to me somewhere around EUR 1 billion is still around, we will see when these dynamics of funds will come into the Croatian budget. So this is where the solidarity of the European Commission and the EU towards the Republic of Croatia is seen. So we will not slave with whether we need EUR-o 2015, we need the EUR-o today in the context of the stabilisation of the exchange rate. No EUR-o as a currency, we need and therefore access to the European exchange rate mechanism now, their instruments so that we can enter the euro bond market. A fellow Shuker will likely tell you what kind of crisis he was experiencing in 2008-2009. when it could not be placed on the market, it could not be placed on the market. Today we probably wouldn't be able to get into the dollar market like the situation in America today that we need our budget a question is you can't get into America. So it's a question of how we can access it. Minister Maric made as much as he could with regard to kuna liquidity, there was a very high-quality work with the CNB, a part of the reserve was fired, and Minister Maric actually stabilised this part of the kuna that needs to be financed by the state's cold drive. The question is, what about the euro part is that we know that many companies have commitments in the euro, so we don't have, we don't have an inflow from foreign exchanges, many companies have in the euro, and all of these commitments that we still have for the EUR will be pressure on us, and the only sources we can get if there is no tourism are EU funds and the EU. And if we can't access, and you know when it opens, the European Commission has said somewhere around 2,000 billion that it will release, very similar to the package that the United States has made, 2000 billion euros that it will be on the market. However, if they are found there, and what the colleague was saying, the Italians and the Spanish who will surely be asked not to say at the moment of that EUR. If the Republic of Croatia cannot access through the mechanisms of the European Stabilisation Mechanism it cannot be on the market and, or if it can be, it can be with a limited amount and with a very expensive capital amount, it can honestly be EUR 2025 for us. No, we need it now, we need EU help now, and that's a political decision. It's a purely political decision. You watch the papers, see what the 2020 budget, 2021, 2022, is totally irrelevant, totally irrelevant, how much public debt will be our deficit, these are no longer criteria at all, these are no longer the criteria to enter for this part. We need their very clear message from the Republic of Slovenia as the Slovenians do. Slovenians also entered the Eurozone after a political decision. How did the Greeks get in? The same for the political decision, it wasn't seen in this section. So, it is very clear that the European Commission's decision towards the Republic of Croatia that, now we will help you, you will have access to the mechanisms, liquidally you will be for the sake of the EUR is the worst thing that can happen to us that I don't know at 7.7-7.8 and that all the burden of the crisis is relocated to Croatian citizens who have hundreds of billions of kuna in euro loans again, so that God doesn't give us a new franc. And then we have a huge problem. So, a very clear political message is that if you help us with these certain means. It is not easy to go to the European financial market today, especially when you have such significant countries that need so many EUR, which so many Euros need. The question in the future is what will happen to the Italian banks. We know that in us, in the Croatian market is more than 50% of the active Italian banks, and we see what is happening in Italy. No one can predict if it drops 10%, 15 or 20 in Italy. No one can predict the impact on Italian banks or their impact on banks in the Republic of Croatia. So it's a serious asset, and that's why the CNB's decision to ban payments from getting Italian banks, Austrian, according to their queens, would they do it within a second. All the capital they have would be transferred to their mothers if they needed some help and that's commendable. I commend the Government and the CNB for their hasty response, but that is why they reacted because they actually did, and the European Central Bank gave it to them. However, it is important to see and see the cash flows of the EUR by the end of the year for our balance of payments. Our colleague Bulj often mentions foreign exchange signals that have also stabilized our balance of payments. Today we hear that over 50, maybe more, 60,000 Croatian citizens will simply be fired in the EU and returned to the Republic of Croatia. So, what about foreign exchange inflow? Do you know that the balance of payments was held by the export of services or tourism of over EUR 10 billion and what my colleague Bulj said repeatedly mentions the signs. That's part of it, and now we've got a ban and we don't have goods exports. We simply do not have the export of goods, we cannot get to the EUR, there is no export of services, there is no export of goods, there is no foreign currency. International reserves are already running out. And therefore, the EU's solidarity with the Republic of Croatia as a member who could not use the instruments when we were in crisis in 2008-2009. We couldn't use it. That's why we were in crisis for 6 years, which is why we were the last to get out of the crisis, because we couldn't go to the European capital market, to the world capital market, we couldn't go out on a dollar basis and raise funds to finance domestic, domestic consumption and domestic liquidity, and this is the EU test, this is an EU test from the trust of Croatian citizens to the EU. And if such a political agreement is reached that the Republic of Croatia can have a peaceful liquidity and foreign exchange inflow, all that other members have actually used, all that other members have used will also open up the trust of the Republic of Croatia towards the EUR. As long as it is not there, that there is silence, that various games are happening there that the Croatian public doesn't know if they actually accept us or don't accept us, they will actually determine the position of the Croatian public towards entering the EURo. Now we need help, now we need liquidity, now we need to reduce the pressure on the budget, now we need to stabilize the course, now we need to act. Two, after these measures, absolutely without substance at all to discuss the concept of the EUR, and I hope, warmly, that, regardless of the slow reactions of the European Commission towards Italy, bad reactions unlike America to the economy, has information been released today that the European Investment Fund is giving 8 billion euros to small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is whether Croatian companies can join the European Investment Fund. So, EUR 8 billion for 100,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. Although we are not in the EUR, we should show a political message that Croatian small and medium-sized enterprises are politically able to participate in such programmes in the European Investment Bank. So, the EU has strong levers, they just have to show that the Republic of Croatia is equal and that part of the instruments will provide us with Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197501	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Schuker will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, listening to these discussions today, a man asks himself whether we are aware of the situation we are in and whether we are a state and a people who stick to what he signed. So we have three legal proposals that are what they are and we can very hard change them because of this and because of that, we simply adapt to where they are. However, colleagues and colleagues I will continue here, in fact I will continue to debate my fellow Lalovec. Are we aware over the next period of a month and a half, two, three, how much Croatian funding is needed for all of what we have all supported in the Croatian Parliament. So, everything, all political options. Are we aware of how much money it is if this is all going to last up to 6.7 months? Are we aware that the financial opportunities of Croatia and Croatian banks are limited, that at this point we simply cannot close any possible source of income. Or are we aware of which, by what day, if this is like this, we can keep the swear course the way it is. Don't let God make the script happen, not nearly as much as it was with the Swiss to happen to the Kuna. How much would a friend of Croatian citizens grow, how much more kuna would it take for Croatian companies' debts and loans and eventually how much more kuna for the Croatian state to reprogram and to be in charge outside. That's the facts. And now colleagues and colleagues, how much money the Croatian state will need to finance all these measures and those measures proposed by some other clubs, because look at the revenue side of the state budget is devastated, because these 500 or 600 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, their employers, will be helped by the government with the payment of 4,000 kuna and in the largest part of the release of pension and health contributions were paid to the state budget in some past periods at an average of around 3,500 kuna. So when you multiply it by 600,000 you'll see how much money you'll be missing on the income side. However, the expenditure side of what should have been paid on the income side has not decreased, although as far as health care is concerned it has increased. The prime minister and resolution minister have several times stressed that the payment of pensions does not come into any question, it is something that will simply be. And now look at what they pay off their pensions is going to go down pretty much. So, you have to find an alternative to financing that. The only alternative is to be in charge or withdraw if available to you, and among other things, by adopting these 3 laws, God grant us that we of the 1.7. enter the ERM II mechanism and that we have the basis for certain funds from the European Central Bank. So that's something we just have to think about right now. We need to think that every kuna, every EURo we can get so we don't close our doors, we get to it. Because on the one hand, we're going to be in a position not to have enough resources to defend, actually the funds we've defended this course with. On the other hand, all these measures, look at your colleagues and colleagues every step you propose to give someone something or you're going to write something off to the state, because you're going to finance it. You can't say that at this point in time health care that was in so much trouble is not needed because, and the additional involvement of health care personnel and the additional engagement of material technical resources along with this all accident occurred and the earthquake in the City of Zagreb which devastated many health institutions, so these are all the means we should simply obtain. And make sure that both the government and the finance minister and the governor are working very carefully at this point and planning not to close any markets where we could get the money. Because the biggest problem will be, the greatest evil will be if the state can't pay off its obligations in time, if the state becomes an indifference generator, then you're hard on us. At some times I won't speak before, because many like to compare them, it's simply two things that can't be compared and it's hard to compare, but precisely on the trail of what happened before, we can't turn this thing into a negative right now. Because everyone here in the debates mentioned that these measures weigh 75 billion. That 75 billion is not in the state budget. One part will be obtained from the EU's social package, God grant us access and certain funds to help the economy from the European Central Bank, and all else is borrowing. Now look, the central bank has fired 3 percentage points of mandatory reserves to business banks, and in such a way, business banks have come up to about 11 billion kunas of funds, not all assets have been allocated to the state, they have left one part of the funds for the economy and for their own liquidity. So, even when we talk about these domestic banks, we simply cannot ignore them at this point as a very important factor in financing, financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. However, they should also send a clear message to these banks that they must at this time take care of both Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen who have found themselves in trouble, who simply are not working and cannot pay their loans. Now the question is, if someone doesn't work and if someone doesn't come to where will those interest be coming from that they should later pay? Now we've been coming up with what I've been talking about for a month, a month and a half from this pay phone and in an individual debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's responsibility. The responsibility of everyone in this process. And when I talk about these three laws, whether we bring them or not, nothing will change there, but it will change into the perception of those of whom we expect assistance from Croatia, that Croatia has not implemented certain obligations, if they are the prerequisite for us to enter the ERM II mechanism there 1.7, then we with the ERM II mechanism are opening up a series of sources of funds that we unfortunately cannot think about at this time because we are not in the euro zone. And in that way, if we think and if we think, then we're going to avoid empty stories and then here I'm going to lamentate like this, I'd do it like that. However, Minister of Finance, Prime Minister and Resort Ministers in the morning when they come to work know that they have to pay this much here, that they have to pay so much money there, and that there is no income in the state budget because we will only feel what this crown is after 15, 20.4., but economics has brought Croatia first of all to the budget it will be seen, but so far you have not noticed that any target group that receives funds from the budget, whether it is pensioners, whether it is Croatian health, whether it is social aid or help the economy felt that something was happening. Why? Because the government used in the first hand of this financial instrument, in the first run-in of these financial instruments it has, however, the question arises when in a month, everyone comes to this financial market in Europe, how far it will be open to Croatia, and under what conditions Croatia will be able to borrow. The question of whether we'll be able to get to the American market and whether or not we'll be able to be in charge there. So, colleagues and colleagues, and with this I will conclude the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, so I think it is primarily for us at this time to, in addition to these measures that we unanimously supported, and that is a good message to everyone, but also a message to certain financial institutions to provide a source of funding for all that has been waiting for us for a few months. And we won't wake up one morning and simply the crown of the crisis won't be, we simply have to secure the time when life is normalized so that the Croatian economy can start with good predisposition financially because if you don't have a source of finance, then you can't start this one well. And in the end, I have filed a nomotechnical amendment, and I sincerely hope that the proposer of this law will also accept it by the HDZ Club for this. Everything I've said supports these three legal proposals. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197503	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. Now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Miro Bulj, there he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197504	Thank you. Here we see now that very constructive discussions have opened up, essentially the reality of the virus's coronary not only on health problems that we have in the Republic of Croatia and all our capacities and resources that, now invested in the fight, are going to be investing in the fight against this health problem, key issues have been raised in terms of how much funds these are, amounts of funds within this short period of time. I'm talking about the 75 billion packages. But the fact is that at this point, like never before, I was a critical and Eurosceptic towards the EU because I know that the stronger one is always pushing, that we are important to them for the market, but never as now as the European institutions, their banks, their sources of funding, and we are chairing the EU at this moment, we even have a Commissioner within this EU, the European Commission, therefore we, like those who chair, expect that Croatia as a small country, as a country that has, means that it has the potential for development, and which at this point will be terrible, are we now seeing that this crown virus has told us what our situation is in agriculture, what our situation is in the economy, what problems we are in, what is the situation on the market is, that this has never been the bigger moment that this is also a fellow Lalovac said, never greater moment for EU solidarity. If the EU and its bodies are acting as they are at this point towards Italy, and even when it is.../incomprehensible/... the EU money will certainly like it much bigger, and we, I hope we will not stay on the custodial, we are now being helped and now we are being devoid of money, and we are not being tampered with by these laws that are being duped in this moment that we do not know what will happen to the EU. I would only say once more that restrictions i.e. The strokes don't smell like pay for the biggest crisis this moment, my colleague Schucker made a comparison in 2009. The crisis, 2008, '09, everything that came out of it, but that's what my colleague Lalovac said, but at this point it's very important to say that they can't handle the crisis most at this point by the cops, they need to get paid, soldiers, mostly health workers, we said today cleaners have a much lower salary in their homes of health, in hospitals, a lot less that are also doing riskyly and are fighting on the first line of defense, they're getting paid now by the triba. We can't hurt these people right now, but the tribune goes from itself, so the government is on its own, and that's to finally see that our structure isn't functional. I'll never understand why we're tribbing this number of counties. Don't realize that I hate counties, no, I come from Split-Dalmatia County which is the biggest, but the logic of the county doesn't make sense to me and to whom is that level of government even more triba. The County urgently abolished and fellow Schucker could have me, here and the secretary clear to understand, if we abolish the county, the decentralised money that goes to health care, the more it remains in this flow boiler, the stones, the decentralised healthcare funds remain in the county who knows where, the health and health care homes are in a catastrophic situation, the catastrophic mainly in rural areas and the abolition of the county we have huge amounts of money that we can invest where we need to. Croatia is not such a country as to have 20 and some counties. I know it's important that as a voting machine, as an infrastructure, but that's the kind of money they put in the county at 155 local self-government, the local self-government unit. So, first of all, we, as a people who have so much surface, as a people who have been evicted, have to mention a fellow Lalovac, is the important thing that I've always said, we will now have less payments because our people out there won't have any income because they've been fired will be coming back and some have lost their jobs. So tourism is who knows what's going to happen. We have to simply, we're a small people, not tribune so many counties, let's get rid of the county that's already the first move where we'll have some funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197505	Mrs Grozdana Peric will now have her debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197506	Here is a well-respected colleague, my colleague, and a lot of things has already been said, I would only mention with these three laws that, when the first reading started, there was no near sign of the crown of the virus, nor of such possibilities, so the Republic of Croatia, which signed the agreement with the EU itself, was something that was in a certain time a condition for all these mechanisms to be launched. So this is a second reading, so you don't have to tie it all up right now, life needs to stop, but in fact everything you've taken as a serious state, a serious government, you have to do, and in this direction, you really need to coordinate it with what you signed. I would repeat once again that all that is happening in the meantime is very much about all of us. If you only remember the 2020 budget, then you'll see that, let's say, VAT revenue was planned at the time, 55 billion kuna is slightly more than 55 billion, that about 9.3 billion incomes from profit tax, etc., and all of this is now from this perspective when we look at how well we're aware, and he's well aware of both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, which means how much less income will be achieved only by those basics, where customs are, where the contributions and everything else. Therefore, it is very important to find the exact missing part of what we can expect now for unrealized revenues, and at the same time we have a lot of problems and demands and many parties are coming up with various opportunities and demands to help at all levels. And, however, the government itself, in all these measures that are in the first round, and in the second round, has to think very carefully about how everything that has gone well in these last three years, 3.5 years to try to keep or should live and now, but it also needs to live after the crown of the epidemic or pandemic, and no one could have predicted that the problem of the earthquake would also arise which is something that we absolutely couldn't affect either. So a lot of factors that are now much harder from this perspective were, it's much harder to solve all of that now compared to the planning that you did last year when those parameters weren't there. Therefore, these 3 laws actually speak of the seriousness of Croatia which wants to fulfill all that it has negotiated in its negotiations at the end of the day. He also wants to enter the European and monetary and banking union and ultimately come, what colleagues before me have said and to those funds much easier in this solidarity union which will thus open up Croatia's opportunities for all of this to happen not as a single country, but as one of the countries, to get through much easier. Therefore, this must not be related to the weakness of Croatia, which at this time is disowning some of its rights, but rather to its strength and seriousness that it truly fulfils its obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197507	Thank you. Mr. Bull has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197508	Well, my fellow Members, at one point, you said that opposition and MPs are being thrown out by certain measures, and I think the opposition is constructive, that the opposition has accepted and not agreeing with the first package of measures that are weak. We didn't support them, we voted them, the amendments weren't accepted, and then the government took its measures that were identical to what we were proposing, so I wouldn't say that in this case the opposition was essentially the one that was throwing itself away. It's the role of all of us to propose and look for the best tools, and that's how the debate opens. However, the fact is that when you talk about the EU, about the EU's monetary policy, about our euro area entry, about our commitments under the pre-accession treaty, above all we have EU assistance now solidarity aid, not tomorrow, who knows what will be tomorrow, now and now, financial assistance. If they're solid, if they're correct let's not just close into their borders big and their own, that money spends for themselves, for their own purposes, And they have it, we need money and help now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197509	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197510	Thank you very much. So, the government has made a very good move on everything that has been a suggestion of opposition and, in fact, I think it's very quality and applied and they've done a lot, and I believe that this government has a reputation and that with everything our president's been doing so far, we will surely find ways how this solidarity is actually going to work and we won't be left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197511	Mr. Shucker, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197512	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you mentioned in one part of your debate and local self-government, so in the Law amending the State Budget Act, the state has committed to giving local self-government units on behalf of the income tax inaccessibles and income tax returns an unscathed loan so that they can bridge it. So, the state has taken over as someone who at this point has a good, so to speak credit ability, can practically be in debt at a very low interest rate to help everyone. And what we as representatives simply have to send a message that we must not close the road, pipe, knock down a bridge or anything according to any source of funding from the EU to business banks, that we can get to those funds because that is the only way we will preserve health and also preserve the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197513	Thank you, time. Answer, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197514	Thank you. A fellow Shuker must not forget that all of this is happening, so by not paying or paying the wages paid when, when the economy normally works, the incomes of local self-government and regional self-government units are reduced directly, and you need to know that from income tax are generally cities or municipalities have at least 40% income from income tax, some more, some less. So now with these measures where every man is saved, every job, but can't be compensated at as much as anyone has realized, instead of 4,000, he's achieved 7,000 or more. So, and it's very important that then and those units of local self-government work because that's actually what What each of us needs. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197515	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic will have the final word on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197516	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In view of the time we already have and your whole day's work, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate and for all those who participated, and they are not present here and also if they allow this, this time to accept on behalf of the Government and the amendment of Agent Ivan Shuker, who is of nootechnic nature in relation to Article 3. Law on CNB code P.Z. 829/3. Thank you very much, once again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197517	Thank you, thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I wish you a pleasant rest of the evening and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 9:30, forgive the audience, tomorrow morning at 9:30 at Hotel Westin will be discussing the amendments, really the amendments this time, and then there will be a vote. Goodbye. Session aborted. We move on to a statement on amendments to the final draft law amending and supplementing the CNB Act. The amendment was submitted by representative Ivan Lovrinović, representative Goran Aleksic, representative Ivan Šuker. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of MP Ivan Shuker, and he became an integral part of the final draft of the law. And now we move on to the amendment of MP Ivan Lovrinović. This is an amendment to the article. 3. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197519	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The declaration of allocation of vault and vault operations by the CNB has been declared to be of particular importance to the financial, economic and security interests of the Republic of Croatia and to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed legislative article is the basis for the adoption of sublegislative acts which would more precisely define security, defence and other measures to protect the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent situations that could cause damage to the economic and financial interests at national level, which are linked to the design, construction and use of vault capacities in the process of introducing the EUR. As regards the transparency of the conduct of the procedure itself, I would like only to emphasise this, that the amendments to the State Audit Act, on the State Audit Office since 2019, have been authorised by the State Audit Office to monitor and control the spending of money by the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197520	Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197521	My dear secretary, I'm sorry that the government has not accepted this same amendment with good intentions. However, you respected citizens who listen to this, you see the construction of the CNB vault being declared a project of security importance at the level of defence, etc. So how does the CNB vault work now? Isn't he big enough? But what's this about? It's about wanting to build a new vault that will cost several hundred, probably millions of kuna, but what's the catch here, dear citizens? If he, this project is declared important by national security, even for defence, then you do not know that it is not subject to the Public Procurement Act, and there is a rabbit in that bush. So this is where it would go to direct contract, and we know how it works in the Republic of Croatia. So let's cut the practice. Do not accept, so do not support respected legislators of this bill, adopt this amendment of mine, actually in front of the Party Let's change Croatia to prevent political clientism and corruption that devours Croatian society and all pores of the Croatian people. That's why, it's not the intention of this article, be careful, in the CNB Act to bring in something about the vault. So what difference does it make, it's a clean construction project like any other, it's important, but apply, I said let's keep it the way it is, but I added one, a few words, but it's worth building a public procurement law. You refused, and you showed that you do not want to deal with corruption in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197522	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197523	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197524	Amendment No. Article 2 10th of the same representative, Mr. Lovrinović, please welcome Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197525	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The CNB conducts the employment of its employees based on competitions, public tenders. Such practice, as confirmed by the CNB, has been present for a number of years in order to provide transparency for the institution in employment. The CNB itself achieves employment in accordance with the positive provisions of the prescribed Labour Act and other relevant rules governing labour law, and the practice of promoting employees is consistent with the good and sustainable practice of other central banks of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197526	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197527	I'm not satisfied with this explanation. And look, I'm speaking to you again, the respected citizens. What's this about? There is no institution in the Republic of Croatia in which other than the army is elected, people are elected to responsible places, this is about the choice of people in the CNB to be held responsible, to be named. In all companies, public, private, there is a public tender, internal or external external. About 100 functions important in the CNB, at about 100 functions directly appointed by the governor of the CNB. It's nowhere to be found. I call on the labour inspection, and I especially invite you citizens, because I don't know who you'd turn to anymore, because this is what you see everyone is deafening, it's an unprecedented clientelem. So it's a discretionary decision, a personal decision by the governor, and be careful if he appoints 100 people to key jobs, without an internal tender, there's no meaning of competition amongst the people inside the CNB, and I don't say those who come from outside. Mr. Secretary of State, public tenders are only being announced for those who are only being hired as a spring in the CNB, you forgot to say that, but the choice of responsible, key functions, discretionary. Therefore, tell the public because they will understand and we realize that then this government deceives us. Dear citizens, this is why I am talking to you, this is the moment when we will rise or fail, this is the moment when the CNB will be forced to be transparent, that, to hire properly, to save the Croatian economy, the Croatian people, otherwise it will all fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197528	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197529	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197530	But don't leave because you have a third amendment to Article 11. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197531	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Act on the Protection of Labour as a general regulation also contains provisions prohibiting the use of means of dependence at work, Article 58, on the verification of workers under the influence of means of dependence and temporary distance from work, Article 59, and on the prohibition of verification, Article 60. Therefore, the special regulation as a general regulation regulates this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197532	Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197533	Dear citizens, why have I submitted this amendment? It's about amending the CNB Act, but I'm looking from this place for everyone, for all public firms that are important and for the functions that are important here it's said that they have to pass the security check on intelligence. We've seen what happened to Agrokora, intelligence came in later. We saw what happened with the state's attorney, the attorney general was a member of a secret society. It doesn't say exactly here, and when it comes to CNB, it's one of the public enterprises, let's say, not classical, but in the public sector. So on behalf of the Party We change Croatia I suggested that in addition to checking the intelligence service, means security checks that are called, which is a security check, which means there's no other thing that's important, means opiate checks, narcotics. I'm asking all the public companies to do it urgently. So, in addition to that, whether they're members of secret societies, whether they're prone to the consumption of opiates, narcotics, etc., we need to clean up this country in all public enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197534	Are you asking for a vote? He's asking for a vote. The next amendment to the same law is from Mr. Honored Representative Goran Aleksic and that is the article, amendment to Article 27. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197535	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the adoption of a powerful collective judgment relating to a credit institution does not prejudice the solution of each individual case because it is in the power of the judicial authority or courts to rule on each individual case or dispute. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia is carried out by courts and the judicial authority is independent and independent. The granting of powers in this case or national bank or exercise, and as regards the Law on Credit Institutions, the National Bank would also have the consequences of the HNB's incursion in the larger, already existing jurisdiction and would affect the independence of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197536	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197537	What you just said isn't true. There would be no incursion in the court's power, the President of the Supreme Court has repeatedly said of objections that after collectively convicted that citizens have first to get their money, he said the court has no sword and the court has no wallet court can do nothing about it. The court ruled that the banks were unfairly doing business, but the court can't pay you back the money, that's what he said publicly. It can be private, everyone has to go to court in private, but Directive 93/13 allows the state to resolve it systematically. Who else needs to order the bank to pay back the money than the CNB who's just overseeing the bank's work. The CNB doesn't want to oversee bank operations at all, and it doesn't want what's necessary to happen, and it needs to get back to people the 20 billion kunas that the banks have robbed them. Why is the government fighting to get the money back on its hands and feet? The Government of the Republic of Croatia helps banks, helps robbers to keep that money from doing nothing, and has the right under Directive 93/13 on the basis of Article 8. The directive has the right to address this problem systematically, and the European Commission has personally answered me that the state has the right to do so. And who else in the state than the CNB is going to order banks to pay money back to Croatian citizens, so far only 0.1% of all that has been robbed has been returned. So far, about 20 million kunas of 20 billion kuna have been paid back as many banks owe to the citizens. The banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity. Why doesn't the Government of the Republic of Croatia want citizens to get their money? I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197538	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197539	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197540	Dear President of the Parliament. In front of the Club of Representatives We change Croatia and Live Wall requires a break of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197541	Well, colleague Lovrinović, just a little please. Well, aren't we at the beginning, I've invited everyone who has a request for a break to ask for a break so we don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197542	I've heard well, however, we can't make this a gemist, you know, they were topics related to these measures, this is a special topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197543	I'm not gonna let you do this. You've had your chance. I've repeated it several times, please return to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197544	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Do you deny the right to speak by your Rules of Procedure? [[The incursion president: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197545	Look, we're not working 100% on the Rules of Procedure right now because of extraordinary measures and I'm very fair and correctly at the beginning asked and asked everyone you have a request for a break to do so. I don't know why you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197546	We don't have to, we don't even have to have five minutes, let me explain my break and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197547	No, I won't let you because I asked you at the beginning, you didn't do it, I don't understand why you're doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197548	You can't do that, Mr. President. and Croatian citizens watching this [[President: I can. I can.]] Let them see how, which is the degree of democracy in this time, you are seeking the dictatorship that you started to carry out anyway. [[I'll do it now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197549	A colleague of Lovrinović's. Please, sit down. No dictatorship, nothing. We argue unlike many parliaments that don't have this level of democracy in these times, we have it, and you're using it now as a joke to highlight something that you didn't do when it was a time for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197550	This isn't about trickery. It's about the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to go to my place. But what you're doing, it's what everyone needs to worry about. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197551	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, second reading, P.Z. No. 829. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Ivan Lovrinović, representative Goran Aleksic and representative Ivan Šuker. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of Agent Ivan Shuker and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. The statement on the other amendments has been made earlier in the session and we will now vote on the amendments that the applicant accepts. First is the amendment of Agent Ivan Lovrinović, the government does not accept it, so please let's vote, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. The second is the amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept, so I ask you to vote. Who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3 The same representative is not accepted by the Government, please vote, who is in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendment of Parliament's representative Goran Aleksic, the government does not accept him, so I ask you to vote. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And then we go to the vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Who's in? I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, resulting in 6 against, 8 abstentions and 116 for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197552	Now we're moving on to the next item of the agenda, since I'm here to consult, a moment, thank you. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is, in fact, the final draft law No 829 Final proposal of the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Credit Institutions, i.e. number 830 Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, No 843 is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the final draft law shall apply, meaning second reading, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. With us is Mr. State Secretary Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic who will have an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, as has been introduced before you, are these three legislative proposals of the law all 3 were at the debate in the first reading at the 16th session, with the fact that the HNB Act and the Law on Credit Institutions adopted the Assembly on 21 February and this latter on 28 February. All 3 final drafts of the law have been drawn up with the aim of further harmonisation of the Croatian legal framework with EU regulations in the area of implementation of measures under the Republic of Croatia's action plan to join the European exchange rate mechanism EREM2 and the banking union. As regards the action plan, it includes the implementation of measures in the area of further strengthening the supervisory supervision of the banking system, or further strengthening the supervision of banks by setting up close cooperation between the CNB with the European Central Bank, the development of a macro-prudential, macro-prudential framework for measures aimed at loan users, and the resolution of banks within the banking union. Just to remind you, as you know, the banking union was created in response to the 2008 financial crisis by the EU. Because it has become clear that the problems caused by the high linkage between public finances and the banking sector can easily be spilled across national borders, and cause problems in other EU Member States. Therefore, the objective of establishing and establishing a banking union is to reduce the possibility that bank balances problems are negatively reflected in public finances and vice versa, which ultimately means that bank recovery costs would no longer be borne by the state but primarily by the owners and creditors, as well as by the single recovery fund. The banking union basically consists of 3 pillars, so only if you allow a brief reminder. Thus, the first pillar is a centralised system of bank supervision and started on 1 November 2014 and gives a new framework for the supervision of banks in the EU, made up of the European Central Bank and the National Supervisory Authorities of the Member States and which participate in the supervisory mechanism. Then the second pillar, it is a common system of bank recovery called the "single recovery mechanism" and complements this first pillar and makes it a single recovery committee as a EU-level resolution body. Then the "single recovery fund" as a joint recovery fund financed by the bank sector in the EU, as well as the "national rehabilitation bodies", and as you know with us, these are the CNB, HANFA and DAB. As regards the third pillar, he needed a common deposit insurance system, but it seems that the rules on the establishment of legal foundations between the Member States and the introduction of the third pillar will be discussed for even longer since 2015. So, as far as these laws are concerned, which we have on the agenda today and do not concern the third pillar, but I would only like to highlight the rules and procedures relating to the establishment, operation, management and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, they are regulated by the current law will remain regulated by that applicable law, hence the 2015 Deposit Insurance Act, and the Deposit Insurance System is governed by the State Deposit Insurance Agency and the Rehabilitation of Banks. As regards the final proposal of the CNB Act, it was necessary to review a certain part of these provisions, so that, in the context of the cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank and the bill proposal, the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in the context of close cooperation, and the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in cooperation with the single resolution committee as part of the second pillar of the banking union that complements, as I said earlier, the single rehabilitation mechanism. In short, he would teach only to present the basics of the bill that we spoke of during the first reading. Therefore, the CNB is foreseen to apply the European Central Bank guidelines instead of international financial reporting standards. The central banks that are not members of the euro system are given the possibility to apply, therefore, the national currency guidelines, therefore before the introduction of the euro, which were so far done by Slovakia, Estonia and Latvia, which later introduced the EURo, and currently used by Poland, and Sweden, even though they still have the Republic of Slovenia's national currency. The introduction of guidelines subsequently influences the need to amend the relevant provisions of the laws relating to the general reserves of the CNB and the calculation of profits and losses of the CNB as well as the need to introduce a category of revolutionary accounts, as well as reservations for risks. In this respect, only general reserves are formed within capital to cover the general risks of CNB operations, and according to the guidelines of the European Central Bank... the profits by exchange rate differences and changes in market prices do not enter in the profit and loss account report or do not enter in the calculation of the financial result. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the schedule of profits and coverage of the loss of the CNB is changed, which is now in proportion to the benefit of the state budget in a way that the income of the CNB is allocated to 80:20 of 20% goes to the general reserve of the CNB and 80% is allocated in favour of the state budget. In the loss of this new one, it would still first cover itself from the general reserves, and if the loss is greater than the sum of the general reserves and if it crosses the height of the general reserves, it would be covered from the profits of the coming years of course. In the event that the total capital of the CNB is reduced by losses from previous years over a longer period of time than the core capital of the CNB, the amount to the capital amount will be secured in the national budget in the next medium term. Furthermore, there are provisions regarding interest rates. It is now prescribed that when the CNB takes the funds and receives the deposit that that interest can be negative. The current CNB task, which has been defined as contributing to stability and the financial system as a whole, has been expanded in such a way as to achieve it through the implementation of macro-prudential policy. Then there's the question of the vault. On this issue, it is determined that the location, construction, construction of the vault itself and the vault business of the CNB are important for the financial, economic and security interests and defence of the Republic of Croatia. International reserves are defined as all forms of assets in foreign currency and precious metals, security checks for certain functions are introduced, authorities of the CNB shall be given the authority to conduct infringement procedures for which the supervision or supervisory supervision is competent and, with the agreement of the Single Sanitary Committee, adopt implementing acts. Certain powers that we had in the first reading of the National Bank's advice on this matter were added as well as the governor's powers mainly in the part and the implementation of macro-prudential policy and in the sense of the adoption of sub-legislative acts. As regards the first reading of this final proposal, certain nomotechnical amendments have been made in accordance with the proposals and observations of the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 15, amending Article 47, which regulates the schedule of profits and the coverage of losses, the provisions are complemented in the event that the total capital of the CNB is reduced by losses from previous years over a longer period of time and when it is less than the underlying capital, in such a way as to ensure the necessary amount to the level of the underlying capital in the national budget in the next medium-term period and to clarify what makes the total capital of the CNB, i.e. the capital of the underlying capital as a general capital of the general reserves, the revaluation accounts and the reserves for financial risks. As regards the Law on Credit Institutions, analogous to those standards that we had within this previous and part of the work of credit institutions, changes have been made in relation to close cooperation, then macro-prudential measures aimed at the credit user where, as the last time we stressed, we could take measures by the People's Bank to determine the maximum possible ratios of the value of the instruments of the insurance of the approved amount of credit when it assesses it. It can then determine and limit both the maximum amount of credit and income generated by the credit user, the maximum amount of payment of the instalments or payments and income, the maximum duration of the credit and the required connection for the method of payment of the credit. Therefore, related to these macroprudential activities previously completed by the provisions of the CNB Act. Then, unlike the current way of working when the Croatian Banks Association calculated, now the CNB is, on the basis of data that the delivery of credit institutions is, for regulatory purposes, calculating and publishing the national reference rate of the average cost of financing of the Croatian banking system, which is needed because of the importance of this, and the reference rate which serves as a index for determining the variable interest rate for consumer credits, so it is now in the jurisdiction of the CNB. The exchange of information on client links, if you remember the application of the General Data Protection Regulation there in May 2018, poses a problem concerning the exchange of data relating to the protection of personal data, is now regulated here by the provisions that this or this exchange is made possible within the banking system to better assess the client's ability and manage and manage credit risk. As regards the difference in the proposal for a law in order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of measures on a credit institution in proceedings against an CNB solution on the imposition of early intervention measures, the introduction of a special administration, the withdrawal of work authorisation and/or decision to open a forced liquidation procedure, the competent administrative court may not decide that the action has a delayed effect nor can it issue a provisional measure as in some cases where the system has been blocked when a certain bank would come into such a situation that it should or even be liquidated that certain measures that have now been in force in the current norm have blocked the procedure and this very blockade of the procedure could have led to the fact that the credit institution itself and failed to take measures itself or to obtain secured savings deposits if it were possible and this could result. This makes it impossible to do so, so the measures would be taken, and of course the party to the proceedings would have the right to press charges against the court and how the case ends. With regard to the party's right to plead on the basis of a recommendation from the European Central Bank, pointed out in point 4 of point 47 of its opinion of 25 March this year, the harmonisation of the provisions in accordance with the standards on procedures managed by the European Central Bank in case of an emergency supervisory decision, in which case the party shall be given the opportunity to show in writing the facts, objections and legal basis if they are relevant to that decision. In addition, the provisions governing the relationship between the variable fixed part of the total income of individual workers are complemented, and a provision on the publication of CNB information is complemented with regard to the publication of sanctions which, in the context of close cooperation, forms the basis of the European Central Bank’s instructions to the CNB. A transitional provision has been adopted according to which all procedures that have begun during the current norm will be completed according to this current norm and nomotechnical adjustments have been carried out in accordance with the observations and proposals of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. And in conclusion, as regards the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, the subject of this Act is therefore the 2nd pillar of the Banking Union or the common system of bank recovery, as I just said earlier, the single rehabilitation mechanism. It is also closely linked to this law that the Law confirming the agreement on the transfer and unification of contributions to a single recovery fund, which was only to remind the Croatian Parliament on 28 February 2020, and since this agreement had the character of the international treaty and there was also the first and second reading together, so that it is not synchronised now in terms of other readings of these legal norms. The relevant Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms regulates the rules, procedures and instruments for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, then the powers and tasks of the resolution authorities, and the establishment, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund and its management. This final proposal for a law draws closer to the implementation of Regulation 806 of 2014. The European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a single, uniform procedure for the rehabilitation of credit institutions and certain investment companies under a single recovery mechanism and a single resolution fund with a view to ensuring uniform financing and resolution of the banking union have been established a single recovery fund that is filled in during the period of 8g. Starting in 2016, and should reach a target level of at least 1% of the amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in all EU Member States, that amount is estimated at around €60 billion, is currently charged at around €33 billion, and with a note, as I was saying in the introduction, so the recovery fund is charged with the burden of banks. The proposal adopted by this law from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank becomes a participating Member State in a single recovery mechanism that provides a centralised mechanism for the resolution of all credit institutions established in the participating Member States. The centralized power of recovery within the single sanity mechanism is entrusted to the Single Renaissance Committee and to the National Renaissance Authorities as it was before in the previous law, so here it is, in this case, the CNB, the HANFA and the DAB. In the case of credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which the single resolution committee will become directly responsible or competent. Responsibilities and powers to act in the implementation of decisions will be granted to the CNB prior to the decision on recovery itself, and to the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks after the decision on recovery by the Single Sanitary Committee. The right to vote at the plenary executive meetings of the Single Sanancies Committee will have a representative of the CNB when it comes to the issue of the power of the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Savings Deposits and Banks, in accordance with the division of voting powers, will be taken into account, of course, the opinion of the DAB. The draft law provides for the obligation of the institutions to which the regulation applies, to the payment of contributions to the single recovery fund, and to the resolution fund managed by the DAB, and those contributions will be transferred to the single recovery fund. Furthermore, for the purpose of calculating the achievement of the target level of the Sanantia Fund, the amount of the contribution to be transferred to the single recovery fund as well as the funds to be transferred from the Sanantia Fund will be calculated in accordance with the recently mentioned Act on the approval of the transfer agreement and the unification of the contribution that it adopted for this high home just over a month ago. An obligation shall be imposed on institutions and branches of institutions from third countries based in the Republic of Croatia to pay compensation for the settlement of the administrative expenditures of the DAB. As for the expenditure itself, I will briefly do so, so here is the time I believe, and by the final proposal of the law, so as in the previous ones, I will accept the comments and proposals of the Committee on Law and are incorporated into the norm of the law. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. In the case of provisions on infringements of the institutions themselves, infringements are divided into separate points and are in line with the provisions of the normative part of the law, so that it can be easier to connect. The recommendations and enforcement of the decision of the UNSC shall also be further specified that, when initiating proceedings or infringements by the competent authorities, those recommendations must be taken into account, of course, also. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197554	You have several replicas, the first replica was requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197555	Dear Secretary, the people know that it is time, we all know that the time of the crisis is a crown, and you are pushing a persistent EURo, a persistent EURo, and in this way it cannot possibly be, we cannot in any way come to a conclusion, nor do we answer why to the most developed economy of the EU, Sweden, Denmark, the Czech Republic, and Hungary also do not want the EUR-o, you insist now, return that law. When this crisis is over, we bring a moratorium to credit, a year and a year, and we will talk about it, and when the crisis is over, then we will discuss, we will hold a referendum on the EUR and everything the CNB has to do and what it is doing, and in fact everything against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we also know in the case of Agrokor what happened around the currency and many other situations. One, one question, why is it that the most developed economies of the EU do not want to introduce the EURo?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197556	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197557	Thank you very much. So I would say in the introduction that, since we are all clearly in the problem of the coronary virus epidemic these days and that it brings us all together, both health and economic, it is clear that these legal regulations that we now have in the second reading may seem to be in another plan, but in the context of the very intensity in terms of the banking union and the 3 pillars of this same union of these norms do not necessarily mean the introduction of the EUR. Here we are talking about resuscitating credit institutions and vice versa, and when the third pillar comes in the context of the security of savings deposits. We have repeatedly discussed why some economies have decided to introduce or not introduce the EUR. Some countries have also entered the 1970s when neither in mind nor in mind any introduction, this entry into the EU, at least to us as a country. And when you mention Sweden, for example, it uses these guidelines of the European Central Bank together with the Poles, although it also has its currency. So these are different strategies, but we will never enter the EUR-o unless we meet the criteria. I'm afraid after these interventions about the current crisis we'll be beyond that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197558	Thank you. The second amendment has Mr. Schibol, a replica of pardon. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197559	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, it would be good if I had an amendment that would be accepted like this now, but it's not an amendment, it's a replica. I am interested in why this entry into the Eurozone is now being forced, especially during this crown crisis. So, for example, We have Bulgaria, which is in a similar phase as we do, Bulgaria further meets the criteria of nominal convergence than Croatia, but Bulgaria has just delayed its entry into the ERM II course while the pandemic itself is calming down. So I'm interested in what reason did this law come to us now in the assembly instead of focusing on the measures relating to overcoming this pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197560	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, not the amendment, but the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197561	Thank you very much. I wish we had the main concern whether we're going to introduce or not. All these legal proposals that I have mentioned now, as well as this previous agreement for the confirmation of the third pillar, have gone a long way before, before this pandemic occurred and as you can see from all the activities of the government and this high home that we have all directed our forces in this sense to preserve the health of our citizens and to try to secure enough resources to vitalize and maintain as much vital economy as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197562	Thank you very much. The third amendment, and I'm sorry, don't let time run yet, I agree that he was the first just probably not seen for, because of the monitor, I apologize, I don't write it, but Mr. Maras, here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment may be made later, but I will now ask my colleague and give the replica. What I am interested in, and probably interested in all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on moratorium on the rates of loans from our fellow citizens. So we all know what the situation is, Mr. Secretary of State, it's certainly a measure that you should have taken among the first in the Republic so that citizens who are out of a job who are now able to survive will allow a year of moratorium to somehow get on their feet and start working again, eventually be able to get those loans back. I wonder why there's no government response to that, and when are you going to do that? So, why shouldn't the citizens of the Republic of Croatia welcome Easter more peacefully than they will now, since they haven't seen any moves from the government, and wars are coming toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197564	Mr. Zrinasic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197565	Thank you very much. I, from your inquiry before I am experiencing an assessment of the government's measures so far, which I think may need to be recommunicated by someone else, not by a State Secretary who represents three legal regulations that have nothing to do with it, but let me say, however, that yours is not all that you may have received the impression that the Government is doing nothing, on the contrary. If all of this is looked at these days and there has been a vote on here in this high house, a series of legal norms leading in this direction, and one of these steps will certainly be as announced by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance as Vice-President of the Government as the next round that goes, heading towards the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197566	Thank you very much. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras, so we have to give him our word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197567	Thank you very much. In 238 he was injured, I didn't colleague state secretary said the government was doing nothing, I said here today that I would support the laws that were. And last week we also supported certain laws and we propose certain laws. My question to you was because there was no action on the moratorium on loans to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you understand that the moon is passing, that people are out of work, that there are payments coming, that they can't wait a month for the government to come up with those actions. That's what I was going to tell you, I'm interested in what position you're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197568	Mr. Maras, you know, it's been a while, you know very well that Article 238 doesn't apply to the promoter, you know very well. The motioner did not answer your question according to your judgment. That's right, I mean we can't, you can't do anything, you can't do anything. You can say that next time you're performing. But let's move on, as some have said before. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197569	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary Zrinasic, the Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is an excess of liquidity, they have 59 billion kuna of capital all of these came back about 15 years when they had only 10 billion kunas of liquidity and some 15 billion kunas of capital seem to me. And now after talking to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the bank decided to offer people moratories, but moratories that account for interest, those agreed interest rates, and which people will pay when the moratorium ceases to operate. So I ask you, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again sit with the banks at the table and try to convince them that these interests are not to be accounted for, and if these banks don't listen, will the Government then prescribe that the banks have to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197570	Thank you, too. Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197571	Thank you very much. As you remember when the government communicated for the first round of 63 measures among which it cited and the ones that you are now citing and when talking to business banks, it was not an impression that it would act the way you have now described it in the sense that it would move this or delay these deadlines of payment of credit obligations rather than that it would find it in a way that these same citizens would not be brought into an even more difficult situation. And in that sense, I think that even daily conversations are being held not only in terms of government as executive authorities, but there is certainly Croatia's people as power, as monetary authority as a very important lever in these and talks and arrangements to find the best solutions for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197572	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Lovrinović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197573	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State cannot be surprised that in a situation like this, a strong destabilization of the economic system of the threat of pandemic to health is not only for Croatian citizens but for the wider part, this government seems to be doing nothing to bring the euro into Croatia as soon as possible. Well, I don't know any other prime minister, the Prime Minister of any other country of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark, Sweden, they are now worrying about their concerns, affirming their national currencies are saving the economy, and he even said here in Parliament the other day that he's sorry and that he's just now seeing how bad it is for Croatia that we're not a member of the euro area, so I think it's just as amazing as if the government lives in another universe, as if you've fallen from Mars. We need kunas, we need to save the domestic economy, so stop being stubborn, get down on the ground, we need to solve our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197574	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197575	Thank you very much. And I don't know what to say but that in the given circumstances when great perception and with full right is directed at some other problems that are not our fault as the authorities or the people came to the Republic, so there are exceptional problems with the epidemic of the coronary virus and all these activities that the government is taking I think they're saying enough in this direction to take whatever is possible at a given time to make timely steps. As for the euro itself, this does not mean that the establishment of close cooperation and accession to the banking union necessarily means something bad to think about a long-term perspective, and since we will get the conditions to enter the exchange mechanism and introduce the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197576	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One question. Today we saw that the CNB has intervened with 2.25 billion euros in the last two weeks, which is a very large amount of their foreign reserves. We also see information that the finance minister has announced that he will be in charge of the domestic market. Now, the question is, since we very much need liquidity for Croatia, and we know that foreign exchange inflows will unfortunately be left behind this summer that there were 10 billion euros, do you have any information on whether the government of the Republic of Croatia will go to the euro market if the euro seems to need not only for the sake of the CNB but also to stabilise the exchange rate and do you have any information about it? Why? Because all this part of the amount created by the CNB is unfortunately not going to reach the economy, and that's the problem now. We have a problem with exchange rates and liquidity and I think maybe now it can be collected in the euro market of money to free the domestic kuna for Croatian entrepreneurs. So do you have any information that will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197578	Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197579	Thank you very much. Here's a recent finance minister you know very well that inside our house such all the scenarios are done in haste with all the simulations and views where money will be available. Of course, in that part, and I repeat, we want to actively include the CNB and in part its foreign reserve role, so the following days should be much clearer those steps that are feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197580	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we are, first of all, following in this part because this is a pandemic, so it has affected not only Europe but we can tell the whole world, I am monitoring the government's reactions primarily in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic because in Slovakia they are in the euro area, the Czech Republic is not in the euro area of their differences, so let's say a practical question. What do you think we lost by that, or what would be the advantage if we were in the eurozone? And the second part, just on the trail of what my colleague before me has said about maintaining the status of stabilising the exchange rate of kuna, do we have how much CNB I think that the Croatian government and the Ministry of Finance are serving the HNB lever to preserve this entire system, how much space is there or is there enough space in your opinion that we can hold a course at this level for three to six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197582	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197583	Thank you very much. A good part of your question would primarily refer to monetary authority, but indeed it shows how much they wanted to affect the rate in terms of lowering the reserve to the banks by 3% points, freeing more than 10 billion kunas in financial flows to reduce the rate in terms of the increase in the euro rate compared to the kuna. In that sense, for such activities, if we were in the euro area of course there would be no, but in some other monetary interventions we now have certain advantages in relation to the situation if we were in the euro area. So by combining all these mechanisms depending on where you're in a situation it certainly isn't unequivocal to say better is this, it's better that. So in some foreseeable future that doesn't have to be said tomorrow, we decided as a people to be EU members and to introduce the euro. And in that sense today we are also talking in the context of these three laws and entering the banking union system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197584	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Does he want to take the word of the board representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Marin Škibola, who will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197585	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Here is today in this period of crisis with the pandemic we are in the Croatian Parliament coming to amend and supplement the laws relating to the implementation of the euro into the Croatian monetary system. This is not good at all because the introduction of the euro is one process that requires the involvement of citizens, the inclusion of professions and the involvement of all other relevant actors in order to move in this direction at all to introduce the EURo. Therefore, these discussions in HS on the introduction of the EUR, and we know that there is a major crisis with the crown and that the eyes of the public are pointed at the crown is very bad, very bad that you have now chosen this timing for these laws. What we should say is that without a referendum we should not discuss these laws at all, especially when we know that all the polls, all the important polls, and one of the important polls was made by the Eurobarometer, so official EU polls say that Croatian citizens are against entering the Eurozone. So over 50% of Croatian citizens are currently opposed to the introduction of the EUR and thus access and the EREM2 course mechanism. Obviously, the Croatian government does not care, so they are not interested in the thinking of Croatian citizens, and during this crown, in some ways, the public interest that would be according to the introduction of the EUR from Croatian citizens to be referred to what is happening is somehow avoided and obstructed. Bulgaria and Romania are in similar stages as we are in the field of access and the EREM2 course mechanism. For example, Bulgaria has far better met criteria for nominal convergence than the Republic of Croatia. So Bulgaria has a much smaller, multiple public debt than the Republic of Croatia, has a much smaller deficit and has much less than some other elements that mean they meet the criteria of nominal convergence. Therefore, and ultimately, the Bulgarian prime minister decided to stop joining the EREM2 course mechanism by 2021, meaning the crisis with the crown does not go to their assessments. Because he needs to be aware that after this health problem with the crown, we are followed by a major global economic crisis. And the question arises how will the Republic of Croatia be raised in this global economic crisis, how the Eurozone itself will be set up, means the Eurozone members, and it is wise to wait, why force the rise in the Eurozone when we don't know how things are going to happen, I simply don't understand it, and we see that other countries are also being guided by this example. So Bulgaria stops, waits for what happens. It is a wise sovereign policy and I do not understand why this is being forced, especially when the eyes of the public are focused on these health, health problems, and today we should discuss here in the assembly some financial measures, e.g. which the CNB can make, rather than the measures to introduce the EUR. Also one news that is not so public-recognized is that Italy and France have asked other euro area member states to issue a crown bonus because of the coronary crisis. So, a corona of bonds where all euro area Member States would somehow take part of their scope in overcoming this crisis that will arise after a health crisis, after a health crisis, means overcoming the economic crisis that arises after this health crisis. And here, it is the most initiated by Italy, but also by Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria are strongly opposed to the proposal. And then the issue of solidarity is also raised, meaning EU Member States. Because we can observe this solidarity through the fact that we are now sending 20 medical personnel to another Member State and that is solidarity. Yes, it's solidarity, but it's minor solidarity. So this kind of crucial thing is seen as how homogeneous the EU is. And the EU is not homogeneous, but very heterogeneous, because we see that certain euro area Member States such as Germany and the Netherlands do not want to help Italy, France and some other countries such as Spain in overcoming the economic crisis in such a way that they too bear part of the economic problems that these Member States will have. It should be said that the CNB has intervened, it intervenes most in maintaining the stability of the exchange rate, maintaining the kuna, but has not intervened in the context of greater monetary involvability, means that it starts, to start with the primary emission available to it. So this primary show, it's called the economic term "ex niil" creating the possibility, creating the money, that's exactly what America did. So Trump pushed a certain amount of money through his Federal Reserve Central Bank and passed it on to the citizens' accounts and to the accounts of medium and small enterprises. Why did Trump do it and why do some other countries do it? Because they are aware that this is the period when big state spending will be needed. So this is the period when the state will have to be betrayed, very generous in that financial sense, and that takes money. How do you get that money? It's either borrowing or creating. Some Member States, not only of the EU, but also of the world, are moving through the printing of their own currency and thus helping the economy. My opinion is that this is a much better direction because we will be in charge of huge sums of money, and these international financial institutions, banking institutions, private institutions when we are in charge, they will also ask for something in return. Mostly what international financial institutions are looking for in return, such as the International Monetary Fund, which has been tried in all other countries, many other countries are seeking deregulation, demand a reduction of the public sector, means firing, saving, wage reduction means these financial institutions are going in this direction to privatise everything, that the state no longer has any authority, and then raises the question which is the role of democratically elected governments in the elections when all power is concentrated in these narrow financial centres. So, then we don't need to have any choices at all, we can put a technocratic government there that was in Italy, put this Maria Montia and then let him, let him run that policy for us, and this is all a game that will end up very badly. The CNB has reduced the mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% so it opened up to the banks that potential, so it opened up the credit potential so it's going to have a lot more capital now and the banks really won't feel this crisis. So the banks certainly won't feel this crisis, but they're waiting for the moment for this crisis to pass now, they know they'll all be forced to borrow from the banks and then they come into effect. Therefore, banks will benefit the most and certain large corporations of this crown, and they will certainly and certainly use this crisis to accumulate power and to actually centralise that power and do so by these measures. So the banking union is just centralizing power, so it's just centralizing power and all of them, these other institutions financial that aren't in that banking union scheme are falling out of any game. So we should finally come up with a model of taxation of financial institutions because financial institutions must contribute to Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197586	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mrs Vesna Pusic, who will speak in front of the GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, 3 laws, CNB, credit institutions and the rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment companies. All 3 laws should not be ashamed and justified in my opinion at all, all 3 laws go towards accelerated alignment with the rules of the European Monetary Union and an accelerated preparation for the introduction of the EUR. As many have said, of course, we don't know what the world will be like after the crown of the virus, what will happen, anything can happen, no one could have predicted the same thing. So the final decision to join the European Monetary Union, the moment of entry, will be made at the time of the introduction of the EUR, but these laws are prepared for it. It didn't start today, it began partly by our entry and signing the accession contract, but it actively started if you remember I don't know now in mind when it was exactly, but I think it has a year of that presentation of the whole strategy of Croatia's entry into the European monetary union and the introduction of the EUR and since then it's kind of been a project that it's realized. So he hasn't started now, and he won't even finish now. In other words, the fact that we are harmonising the legislation that has made a note of the Bene and many countries, namely not many of them because there are not many of them, but some EU countries that do not have the EUR and have not finally introduced the EURo have harmonised their legislation with, in this area, the rules of the European Monetary Union. The truth is that it's my impression, too, and I have to say by talking in GLAS about it, our impression is that one of the reasons why it's accelerated is that you'll be able to confirm it or disprove it. One of the reasons why this is being harmonised so quickly is the Croatian interest in obtaining access to the guarantees and financial instruments of the European Central Bank and the recovery fund, which we will need, the EUR will need especially without, in this crisis and without the tourist season, but otherwise after the crisis has passed, and will pass and after people do not work as long as they are not, we will see how long it will last but certainly every day is a long and burden, this type of assistance, and that kind of intervention will be absolutely necessary and I see no reason at all, first why we should be ashamed of it and secondly that we are interested and secondly why we would deny ourselves the possibility of taking advantage of it. So, to have access to all these let's say the financial instruments available within the European Monetary Union. These are not the crown laws, of course, it's the truth. Although the fact that harmonising allows us to be able to work more closely with the European Central Bank after the crisis can certainly help us, but in a strict sense these are not the crown laws and here as one footnote I am asking, we are not against these laws, we are for these laws, but why do we not have concrete corona laws here that we should have? As a result, many of the things that people have said here, I will not go into details about it now, but from what my colleagues have said it is clear that neither here in the Parliament is the situation of whether there is a moratorium on the repayment of the loan, there is no, whether the moratorium will then be paid interest on these loans, so that all of this will look expensive, and we should also have one package of financial laws that would focus on the crown crisis so on this situation. These aren't except in this circumstantial sense that I mentioned at the outset. Therefore, these are not laws with limited duration, such as all those relating to the crisis, they are permanent, they bring additional competences, rules and structure regarding the adjustment of the CNB to cooperation with the European Central Bank and the rehabilitation funds, and they are putting Croatia in the direction of putting Croatia in that specific position of candidates for entry into the European Monetary Union. What actually seems somewhat unusual to me is that on the one hand the independence of the CNB is emphasized, especially in art. 4th is something that otherwise exists and is guaranteed, however, it is then particularly taxing its independence in 12 concrete areas or policies. On the other hand, the same law also defines articles which cease to be valid on the day of the introduction of the euro, a total of 19 articles either fully or partially concerning it, including that same article. 4. which is now expanding, which now defines the independence of the CNB in 12 very specific areas or policies. This article ceases to apply, therefore, to all these tax-listed independences cease to be valid with the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia, as regards the independence of the CNB, and this raises the question why they are now, with one law which de facto prepares Croatia for entry into the monetary union, why these 12 areas are now particularly stressed by water. In particular, relations between the CNB and the European Central Bank are regulated where the behaviour and position of Croatia are defined as close to what would be our status if we were a member of the monetary union. The behaviour and resolution of credit institutions and cooperation with the European Recovery Fund is defined, I think it will be a particularly important topic. There's also a definition of violations, so I don't want to go into those details right now. Reading the laws, reading some of the dates on which it is referred here, would be concluded even though I have to say it nowhere, it writes explicitly anywhere, but it would be concluded that some target date for Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union is, in other words, the introduction of the euro in 2024-2025, from this regulation proposed here. So, it's 4 to 5 years from now, where we're going to be and how things are going to look 4 to 5 years from today is a question, we can't predict it at this point, but if what I'm reading from these proposals of the law is that it's 2024 or 2025. then it's certainly not something that's right in front of us, we can say it's pretty fast, but it's certainly not something we're not going to have a chance to discuss yet and we're not going to have a choice yet. Since GLAS considers Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union to be a good goal for 4 to 5 years, we will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197588	Thank you, too. Mr. Scibola answered. Here you go, replica. ... Stanku? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I make mistakes with you every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197589	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Youth List Club because I don't think we should be discussing the introduction of the euro today, we should actually discuss the measures that will overcome this crown crisis both in health and in economic terms. Therefore, using this situation where the eyes of the public are directed at the crown crisis for the introduction of the euro is extremely immoral and extremely incorrect towards Croatian citizens because Croatian citizens are mostly against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone and all relevant statistics show this. Therefore, using this distraction now means using when the public is focused on other problems to push the laws to introduce EUR is a very bad message to the Croatian public, especially when we know that the countries which, meaning EU Member States that are also approaching the Eurozone have delayed this path like Bulgaria, so Bulgaria is in the same situation, but Bulgaria has delayed the entry into EREM 2 course mechanism until 2021. Because of the crown of the crisis, and Plenkovic is trying to push us into the Eurozone urgently, although it is not wise at all, although it is not positive and useful for the Republic of Croatia at this time because it means that we will turn all sovereignty into the hands of the European Central Bank, and we see that at present the central banks are key to defeating this crisis through an independent monetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197590	Another break, I guess, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197591	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia and the Living Wall I'm looking for a break of at least 5 minutes to consult because we simply can't understand that at this time when we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow because we're having problems with the pandemic of the virus, when other countries are shaking, above all Italy where it is at the heart, but also other countries as soon as this crisis is over, it's going to be a difficult, economic crisis. The majority owners of banks in the Republic of Croatia are Italian banks and Austrian banks. I simply cannot come to myself and respected citizens that the prime minister, the Prime Minister of our government, is pushing so much, insisting on the introduction of the EUR, while all other governments and their leadership are now standing by, watching what is happening, there is, for that time. We need kunas now. We need our central bank now. And what does the Prime Minister want? So he wants to transfer you see responsibility from yourself to Brussels, to Frankfurt, to this institution, to that institution. Well, that's not how you run the country. He said here the other day, please, tell us, you see now how bad it is that we are not members of the Eurozone and that we have not introduced the EUR-o. Why? To beg there for, according to Frankfurt, to give us a billion, two, and here from their central bank, we need kunas, we can borrow as much as we need. We don't need this servant policy. We want a sovereign monetary policy, economic policy, and we want to exploit our central bank that we have. And now it's coming out what we're saying. The other day there's an English central bank, 200 billion pounds will buy state bonds directly. Well, she's a national, she's a central bank of that state. I call upon citizens, if there is nothing else, nothing else possible, to defend our kuna in a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197592	Thank you, time. I'm approving a break of 18 hours and 16 minutes, so you and Mr. Schibol can consult. No, Bull didn't ask. [[I Bulj, and Bulj.]] THE PURPOSE We'll continue to work after the meeting. Mr. Miro Bulj will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197594	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia in the Eurozone, the laws that have been passed here before us at the moment when the crisis over the crown shakes the whole world, and mainly our neighbours, and mainly the economic situation, the economic situation where people, all EU citizens, and so the Republic of Croatia feel insecure and of course we see that at a time when the Republic of Croatia holds the presidency of the EU, I don't know, in the last 10-15 days if anyone has mentioned that at all, that the Republic of Croatia is the EU chairman, which means that all members have withdrawn themselves, we see the case in solving their problems and, of course, that here, the Secretary of State will question what I am as a parliamentary representative and interested in. First of all, I see this moment, as I said, that all the members have retreated themselves and watched each and every one of them after washing their fingers, not by washing each other's hands by looking at their own interests, we see here and here we see the case in Italy that was happening, there was not some solidarity of the strongest European states. We see that many politicians, mainly in our neighbouring Italy, are so disgusted with the solidarity they are calling on the EU, and the Republic of Croatia is presidencies, I see that they are removing flags from institutions, offices from the EU because it is simply such a mistrust. And now with the law pushing the EUR in the Republic of Croatia at the time of this crisis, it is minimally, slightly said hypocritically and unculturally respected secretary because I don't know, I don't know why now with these laws, when we see that the foundations of the country have been mired, and the foundations of the EU, and I literally don't know if there's anything more to connect the EU than maybe financial lobbies and banks that want to control continue to preserve that monopoly. My key question to you as a man from the ministry, which is why there are no other countries that are significant before us in the EU, which are significantly more economically and economically advanced than we are, for example. Sweden. Why didn't Sweden introduce the EURo? Why didn't Denmark do it? A much richer state? Why isn't Hungary? Why isn't the Czech Republic having big economic growth? I don't see any reason why we're going undercover at this time of the economic crisis, the health crisis that caused this economic crisis, when this health care goes through, we're going to see just how many effects this crisis is going to have, I don't know what the reason is. I think it would be the most honest thing to pull this off, and ultimately who should decide on all this, ultimately on the EUR, entering this, essentially this introduction of the EUR? In the end, it would be up to the people to decide. He can't be aware of Governor Vujčić, he can't count on the prime minister and their politics. They were not given so much legitimacy by the people, and neither was this parliament. So I think that in this crisis we're going to solve the problems we have, which is also in power, and among other things, the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it's a moratorium on the implementation and moratorium on loans of a year, I think that law should have been today. The opposition is that, the Most Independent Lists proposed it, the SDP as an opposition also suggested it. I don't see any reason why these laws aren't here for discussion and that tomorrow we vote on it and that our citizens have a quieter time when Easter is. Here I apologize, SDP and counterpart Alexic also moved, and MOST also proposed this moratorium bill on loans and the moratorium also put to effect. So, at this point when banks are liquid, when, when they cheaply placed money, experts tell me in conversation with them that this is a huge difference from the crisis that was before 2009 from now on. Then there was no money on the market, now there is. that banks are liquid. So, I would ask you here to have this cowardly egg that you're running around as the Government of the Republic of Croatia along with Governor Vujcic to pull this agenda item, because this is for a much wider debate, these points are for discussion with the people who debate this public i.e. a public debate that will last longer and, of course, the people ultimately decide on this referendum. I don't know why in the Republic of Croatia when the crown crisis is all closed, everything is allowed except domestic markets. It is allowed here we see now and the Law for the introduction of EUR preparation, it is allowed for teleopers who are foreign to set base stations, no one interrupts them, until people are allowed markets, they are not allowed at 2m to go to church or even to Easter. But the teleoperators and you who are lobbyists of foreign banks, the EUR with the help of the CNB are pushing this now, and people don't smell like 2m difference or 5m difference, no matter, for Easter. You can't open up the blizzard, but this law is so urgent that it's gonna get us out of the Vujčić visionary and it's gonna save us from this, uh, introduction of EUR into the Republic of Croatia. So now that the state, here we are chairing, I repeat, when in the last, we chair the EU, when in the last 15 days it has been mentioned that we are the EU's chairman? Niko, all the states shut themselves up and mind their own business. You're the only one... A race in the Brussels corridors. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll give you when they see you, they'll give you everything you have. They'll give you anything worse, don't worry. Look at the Italians as far as they are... not a meaningful secretary, they'll give you Euro sacks like in agriculture what they couldn't do to us, just as a market we serve them. Therefore, I think you withdraw this law, these cowardly eggs that you push us into a crisis when the Croatian people are dismayed, freaked out, when they fear for their health, the whole nation. Don't beat the cowardly eggs into this time, now here's what, 6:30 a.m., come out nice and pull these laws. Put the Moratory Act on the record, give me the law to interrupt the performances over all the performances, and most of all here I see this fellow Scybola, I think I'm thinking of a savings credit association of Raiffeisen banks that won't sleep peacefully in this crisis. They've had a crisis a long time ago, and they don't behave like this savings credit cooperative in their own countries. He can't do that to Hungary, and he can't do that to his country in Austria because they're criminals there. He can't treat our citizens that way. When they have had all the property that their great-great-grandfathers and dids have built for centuries, they will take away their property, and they will never be able to repay that loan because these loans have been so unlawfully made. The CNB is silent. They're pushing the euro now, they'll save you. Instead of you and the Croatian Bank seeing ways and models how to finance this system now, with this money that has the CNB. People's, it means people's money from buying bonds to ways of other funding and helping the government in these measures that should be much sharper. So once again, I do not understand, nor can I understand, that at the moment when the whole nation is, the whole of Europe is, but the entire Croatian nation is in fear of health problems. In isolation, people can't go from municipality to municipality, literally from village to village, people don't go to jobs. You push this law when I can't, I said and I'll say it, I can't go to church for Easter no matter what the measure. Two metres from each other, this is how they don't smell. So we can't do that either, we can't go to the domestic markets the same way that we stick to measures. Wherever it comes to domestic matters, our interests, our citizens, it can't be done, but you can push this into the euro. That's what you do very well. How long have you been paid for this since the money crisis is the EU's chairmanship. So look at the Italian neighbors who send messages to EU leaders. The flags take it off, they go down there, they roll it up, and then they take it down. And you now, you are calling for that and such an EU that is fragile now. No Schengen, no, every single one of its borders has been closed. You can't go through normal now, how you're gonna get through. And we don't know what's going to happen, but this law is a coward's egg, and don't throw this coward's egg into the nest at the moment when the people are in fear, freaked out, in fear, and you can trick whatever you want, and you won't. No matter what is not popular to say now, the triba worship you, you who have brought us into these problems where Croatia is not self-sufficient, now the triba worship you, the triba clap every night from the window. No, you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197595	Mr. Ivan Lovrinović will speak in front of the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197596	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I especially welcome you, dear citizens. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on credit institutions, on the rehabilitation of credit institutions in the context of the formation of a banking union, the EU banking union, as well as changes to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. You see, Croatia is already ten years ago the constant push towards the EU that was the key explanation for us citizens, we will be better in each area, we will be better in agriculture, today Croatia barely produce half of what it once produced. It'll be better in finance, you see 92% of the banks sold to foreigners, interest rates have been the most in the past 10 years, we've remedied them with 50 billion kuna, we haven't recovered anyone so expensive, etc. Dear citizens, do we have reason to believe that entering the European Banking Union of Croatia will make our money safer in banks in Croatia or not? Well, I've given up the previous concept of exposure, so I'm going to tell you something now to see what's really going on there over the Alps in the north because the EU is working, there's a division across the Alps where these over the Alps look high and they think we're down half lazy, lazy, wasteful, etc., and so on and so forth. Now, let's be specific, you know that we from the party change Croatia do not like hollow stories, forgive this expression. Were our deposits and savings safer in such a banking union? Here's an example, the biggest problem not only of the EU banking system, the euro zone, but of the whole of Europe, and possibly of the world is Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. And do you know why? It is the nightmare of Angela Merkel, the German government, the German Parliament and the people, as well as the European Central Bank. Why? Because Deutsche Bank had become one of the largest, practically hedge funds in the world 20 years before 2008, so 15 years ago, it became one of the largest, practically hedge funds in the world. At one point she had $76,000 billion, I repeat $76,000 billion in financial derivatives, as it is said professionally. It fell to 46, now about 30,000 billion, and no one living in Germany knows how to save that bank and the commercial bank, but the far greater problem is Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank is a time bomb under the German economy and state, and thus the Eurozone. Now, when you and Mr. Plenkovic and your government convince me that this problem with Deutsche Bank will be resolved and that it will be good, then I will support this law. And secondly, this is, Lady God knows how to solve the problem with Deutsche Grandma. You see, I came here to the Parliament of dear citizens to speak arguments, professionally, not to invest in you, but to face an open problem. You yourself assess after what I have told you whether or not our deposits and yours would be safer in the Eurozone, in that EU banking union. We live in a world where financial institutions have become the most dangerous part of the economy, the world economy. Why? Because that's where it's thought in the neoliberal doctrine that money should be made money, lex money made money, and that's what came the day to collect it, that's what ended it. Unfortunately, a lot of the world is going to get hurt, the economies just because of this. Another example, Italy. Italy is the largest owner of Croatian banks, then Austrians. The Italian banks in their assets have about EUR 700 billion in Italian debt, Italian government liabilities, 700 billion in total of 2200 billion in total public debt. Imagine tomorrow starting to shake Italy, which will be with their banks, so they are the owners of the largest part of Croatian banking. My people, it's time for deep thinking, but based on the arguments, not on ideological approach, jump, or media propaganda that is spreading these days. And what I'm particularly concerned about as a man and a representative is that a citizen is surprised or afraid that this crisis, the coronary crisis, is being used, you see when people in houses are in fear, that here when no one thinks, that some laws are being pushed here to get past it as soon as possible and to get the RH into a fast train towards Greece. All of you who advocate the introduction of the EUR in this situation, are you people aware of your wishes? Beware of your wishes. Think carefully, it's not just about you, it's about our children, our future. Now it is time for the kuna, for our central bank and for the CNB to show that the Croatian people and banks are. What did the English Central Bank, or their government, do a week ago? They, they will broadcast, they have already broadcast, 200 billion government bonds in pounds and will buy them directly from the Bank of Finland. You see, the neoliberal doctrine has so far placed and preached that the central bank must be completely independent of the state and the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because God's country needs to be expelled from all segments, and if the state wants to be in charge of business banks, let them pay for it. You see, that's a great explanation. In these situations, however, it is quite expensive to force the state to be in charge of business banks, it is equal to suicide, because a country in a situation as difficult as it is today in the EU and the Republic of Croatia and elsewhere should exclusively be in charge of its central bank. All those who today, and I hear here, are looking to be in charge abroad, so you people are the same, so you're here about 15-20, so you've learned to rule on debt. The CNB can grant loans in kunas as long as it takes. If it's about foreign exchanges, we have a net foreign exchange reserve of EUR 17 billion, we don't need them. But as a man, besides being a 30-year-old politician. It deals with international finances and monetary policy and the international economy, and now the CNB has entered a phase where it will decide where it cannot fast two goals. Which one? It can no longer maintain a stable exchange rate and such major interventions towards the economy. One, or one or the other. We from the Party Change Croatia and our economic experts, we strive to change the priorities of the goals. In the first place, saving production and employment. On the second, third, stability of exchange rate prices, etc., etc. That is why I call for reason, I call on the Government to refinance all debts of the general government on the domestic market. That's when I came to the assembly three years ago. Some of you laughed here, and now you'll have a Czech. In order for us to do this, I asked the Government before 3 years ago, to abolish the foreign currency clause or to translate all debts, whether in bonds or loans made in the Republic of Croatia, and to tie to a currency exclusively into kunas. And my fellow citizens to ask you a question, and both your colleagues and colleagues in the assembly. The world is shaking, the Eurozone is shaking which can fail, as is this EUR-o project, it is always a real danger. If you have EUR 1,000,00 or EUR 10,000,00 and the euro is ruined, where you will replace those EUR and who will pay you the equivalent of my fellow colleagues and colleagues. One technical child question, but think about who's going to replace you? Do you want to maybe go to Germany? Do you want the RH? It's the money of a nonexistent state. There is no state, the EU is not a state. So it's time of the knowers, the determined people, the state's moves and we introduce, we defend the kuna, it's our currency we take advantage of. Our central bank. [[/Intruder: Mr. Lovrinović's time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197597	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197598	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have before us 3 Laws amending and supplementing different laws, one on CNB, two on credit institutions, and I propose as a representative of the SNAGA Party the amendment to the CNB Act and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act. First of all, because there is no direct application of the collective judgment, so people who have the right on the basis of a collective verdict to exercise their rights forced to seek their rights, these courts last 4. 5. Six years old, some will die before they reach their own money, and accordingly I suggest some changes to speed it up a little bit. I will first read these amendments exactly as I propose them, and then in the Law amending the CNB Act, I propose that they be in Article. 89. add a sub-assembly. The 10th vote, which refers to the tasks of the CNB, would thus be that one of the tasks of the CNB would be to require credit institutions to act in accordance with a enforceable collective ruling relating to a specific credit institution if the collective ruling found that the credit institution damaged consumers by applying unfair contractual provisions. Also in the amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions in Art. 11. I would like to add to Article 4. that, analoguely to these amendments in the CNB Act, the CNB is competent and obliged to impose on credit institutions the conduct in accordance with a powerful collective ruling relating to a specific credit institution if the collective ruling found that the credit institution damaged consumers by applying unfair contractual provisions. Collective judgments are declaratives, they say banks have or some other traders have done so and that and that, it was wrong, it was unfair and therefore it is not valid and because these traders are not worth it now have to pay the consumers the money they paid on the basis of these some unfair contractual provisions. And on the basis of such a declarative judgment, consumers have the right to ask in courts their own money. However, the State may, however, and should and should go further than that, and should go further than that, Directive 93/13 in Article states. 8. which says that in order to ensure the highest level of consumer protection, Member States may adopt or maintain the strictest provisions compatible with the Treaty in the field to which this Directive relates. In other words, they can go beyond what is prescribed to be achieved in a way that can be collectively protected, and then, on the basis of a collective of a powerful verdict, they can determine how to systematically damage consumers. That's how I personally confirmed the European Commission last year in September. In May, I asked for an answer to the question of whether the Republic of Croatia could, on the basis of a collective ruling, pass a bill that would systematically damage all consumers in such a way as to order banks to return unfairly acquired money and the European Commission has confirmed to me that the Republic of Croatia can do so. I quote part of the European Commission's reply: The EU Court of Justice has also confirmed that it is in accordance with Article. 8. Directive 93/13, which I have just quoted, Member States may provide consumers with a higher level of protection than those provided for in that Directive. Directive 93/13 therefore does not prevent Member States from introducing in national legislation an obligation under which traders are obliged to return to consumers on the basis of contractual provisions considered unfair. Accordingly, I propose amendments to the HNB Act and to the Credit Institutions Act, that the CNB be the most professional body in this regard, to make a certain commitment in the form of a decision, or to order banks to act according to a collective verdict because banks did not act as first in the executive part of the collective judgment, and the executive part of the collective judgment is very simple to say. The 10th rulings, banks are not allowed to behave in the same way or otherwise in the future, and after the ruling became final, the banks did not stop acting as such, but continued in all credits where they did not contract interest rate change parameters to continue to apply an unfair interest rate, and in loans not converted from CHF to EURo they continued to apply increased CHF rates, and by collective judgment they should not do so. I therefore propose these amendments that are very simple and that would finally require the CNB to behave in accordance with its role that the CNB has never acted on before, unfortunately. Furthermore, what I may be missing in the Credit Institutions Act, but I didn't propose anything, is a commitment to banks, credit institutions to implement a moratorium on the credit obligations of non-equity citizens and non-learn businesses at this time of crisis in such a way that the moratorium is not applied to interest, agreed interest. The banks sort of listened to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which apparently talked to banks about moratorium and the banks offer consumers moratorium, but these moratories are such that they account for agreed interest and they reach after the moratorium has stopped. This increases the obligations of citizens who are in crisis anyway. I appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the government of the Republic of Croatia to talk to the banks again, to get them to offer moratories with no interest for 3+3 months. I, with the SDP, propose a moratorium law that would be 12 months, but here's some government 3+3 months if the crisis continues to be half a year in total and that citizens who are not liquid can temporarily stop paying their annuities without accounting for agreed interest. Because the moratorium they offer banks is a common moratorium, it's nothing new, it's banks before offering people who come into crisis when they ask for it. So that's not it. The other thing to do is enable moratorium to leasing, leasing houses. Now they're threatening people by taking away their resources for work, bus, I don't know, other means of transport that are under Leasing, they can't drive, they can't make money, they can't pay off Leasing, they'll take away his vehicles, and that's what needs to be prevented, we save those people who deal with transport. So Leasing is also one, one part of the system that needs to be covered by a moratorium, also without paying fees and interest. And finally, the last thing I read in "The Morning List" on Friday night at 21:30 is an article saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a break, a delay in the execution of a pardon, for 3 months, and in this impasse, there will be no heavy interest charges, so a delay in both the tight interest and the deblocking of citizens' accounts so that they will have full amounts of their income and that is certainly a very good thing if that happens. What I miss about what I read is what's going to happen to companies that are now suspending part of their pay due to performance. I don't see that part being solved, that it's being prepared as a solution because the Financial Assets Act does not include this situation where the company suspends the worker from part of the salary. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and to make this solution comprehensive, to definitely stop for, to stop all executions, not to, to, to avoid tightening interest and to refer to the tasks that go through the FINA and to the tasks that are dealt with through the employer in a way that it suspends part of the salary and pays it, and pays that part to the believer. I hope that this will all be resolved as announced, and I welcome that approach to solving the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197599	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Boris Lalovec, who will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a united debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the CNB Act, then the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, and the Law on the Rehabilitation of Credit Institutions. So, all of this would be fine, the SDP will support these laws and means there are no problems, this part of the EU alignment. However, today a fundamental question is being raised, what is a colleague of Bulj and what we have heard today, about the survival of the EUR and the Eurozone, that is, in the way they behave today. Honestly, with all the support we provide, it will depend on how the Eurozone or Eurozone members, or the entire European Commission, will treat the Republic of Croatia. We, in front of us in the coming period, will certainly need a lot of European funds in the country. Today we saw that the CNB with a response of about EUR 2.2 billion in the last 3 weeks, their foreign exchange reserves are about 19 billion, which means if at this rate we spend foreign exchange reserves we're about 3-4 months away, as far as the CNB foreign reserve is concerned. On the other hand, we expect every summer to receive €10 billion inflows, which stabilized, strongly stabilised the course. We won't be able to make this summer half that amount. It certainly depends, I recently said that the liquidity of maintenance in the system that the state needs to fulfil its obligations within the time limit it can reach better liquid assets, as well as in other words, depends on what the EU budget ratio will be to our Croatian national budget. That is where all EU solidarity will actually be seen. If this money is to come to the EU, from the EU budget, for, from the Social Fund for Payment, that's what we read in the media somewhere that the European Commission has approved some EUR 100 billion, out of which EUR 1.1 billion goes to the Republic of Croatia to pay these salaries, these EUR 8.5 billion, if we have to wait until New Year's Eve, the question is how does the Croatian Government endure such pressure. On the other hand, it is necessary to see that the European Commission, or from the media, has actually seen that they have said that they will flexibleise the use of EU funds, which means that it seems to me somewhere around EUR 1 billion is still around, we will see when these dynamics of funds will come into the Croatian budget. So this is where the solidarity of the European Commission and the EU towards the Republic of Croatia is seen. So we will not slave with whether we need EUR-o 2015, we need the EUR-o today in the context of the stabilisation of the exchange rate. No EUR-o as a currency, we need and therefore access to the European exchange rate mechanism now, their instruments so that we can enter the euro bond market. A fellow Shuker will likely tell you what kind of crisis he was experiencing in 2008-2009. when it could not be placed on the market, it could not be placed on the market. Today we probably wouldn't be able to get into the dollar market like the situation in America today that we need our budget a question is you can't get into America. So it's a question of how we can access it. Minister Maric made as much as he could with regard to kuna liquidity, there was a very high-quality work with the CNB, a part of the reserve was fired, and Minister Maric actually stabilised this part of the kuna that needs to be financed by the state's cold drive. The question is, what about the euro part is that we know that many companies have commitments in the euro, so we don't have, we don't have an inflow from foreign exchanges, many companies have in the euro, and all of these commitments that we still have for the EUR will be pressure on us, and the only sources we can get if there is no tourism are EU funds and the EU. And if we can't access, and you know when it opens, the European Commission has said somewhere around 2,000 billion that it will release, very similar to the package that the United States has made, 2000 billion euros that it will be on the market. However, if they are found there, and what the colleague was saying, the Italians and the Spanish who will surely be asked not to say at the moment of that EUR. If the Republic of Croatia cannot access through the mechanisms of the European Stabilisation Mechanism it cannot be on the market and, or if it can be, it can be with a limited amount and with a very expensive capital amount, it can honestly be EUR 2025 for us. No, we need it now, we need EU help now, and that's a political decision. It's a purely political decision. You watch the papers, see what the 2020 budget, 2021, 2022, is totally irrelevant, totally irrelevant, how much public debt will be our deficit, these are no longer criteria at all, these are no longer the criteria to enter for this part. We need their very clear message from the Republic of Slovenia as the Slovenians do. Slovenians also entered the Eurozone after a political decision. How did the Greeks get in? The same for the political decision, it wasn't seen in this section. So, it is very clear that the European Commission's decision towards the Republic of Croatia that, now we will help you, you will have access to the mechanisms, liquidally you will be for the sake of the EUR is the worst thing that can happen to us that I don't know at 7.7-7.8 and that all the burden of the crisis is relocated to Croatian citizens who have hundreds of billions of kuna in euro loans again, so that God doesn't give us a new franc. And then we have a huge problem. So, a very clear political message is that if you help us with these certain means. It is not easy to go to the European financial market today, especially when you have such significant countries that need so many EUR, which so many Euros need. The question in the future is what will happen to the Italian banks. We know that in us, in the Croatian market is more than 50% of the active Italian banks, and we see what is happening in Italy. No one can predict if it drops 10%, 15 or 20 in Italy. No one can predict the impact on Italian banks or their impact on banks in the Republic of Croatia. So it's a serious asset, and that's why the CNB's decision to ban payments from getting Italian banks, Austrian, according to their queens, would they do it within a second. All the capital they have would be transferred to their mothers if they needed some help and that's commendable. I commend the Government and the CNB for their hasty response, but that is why they reacted because they actually did, and the European Central Bank gave it to them. However, it is important to see and see the cash flows of the EUR by the end of the year for our balance of payments. Our colleague Bulj often mentions foreign exchange signals that have also stabilized our balance of payments. Today we hear that over 50, maybe more, 60,000 Croatian citizens will simply be fired in the EU and returned to the Republic of Croatia. So, what about foreign exchange inflow? Do you know that the balance of payments was held by the export of services or tourism of over EUR 10 billion and what my colleague Bulj said repeatedly mentions the signs. That's part of it, and now we've got a ban and we don't have goods exports. We simply do not have the export of goods, we cannot get to the EUR, there is no export of services, there is no export of goods, there is no foreign currency. International reserves are already running out. And therefore, the EU's solidarity with the Republic of Croatia as a member who could not use the instruments when we were in crisis in 2008-2009. We couldn't use it. That's why we were in crisis for 6 years, which is why we were the last to get out of the crisis, because we couldn't go to the European capital market, to the world capital market, we couldn't go out on a dollar basis and raise funds to finance domestic, domestic consumption and domestic liquidity, and this is the EU test, this is an EU test from the trust of Croatian citizens to the EU. And if such a political agreement is reached that the Republic of Croatia can have a peaceful liquidity and foreign exchange inflow, all that other members have actually used, all that other members have used will also open up the trust of the Republic of Croatia towards the EUR. As long as it is not there, that there is silence, that various games are happening there that the Croatian public doesn't know if they actually accept us or don't accept us, they will actually determine the position of the Croatian public towards entering the EURo. Now we need help, now we need liquidity, now we need to reduce the pressure on the budget, now we need to stabilize the course, now we need to act. Two, after these measures, absolutely without substance at all to discuss the concept of the EUR, and I hope, warmly, that, regardless of the slow reactions of the European Commission towards Italy, bad reactions unlike America to the economy, has information been released today that the European Investment Fund is giving 8 billion euros to small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is whether Croatian companies can join the European Investment Fund. So, EUR 8 billion for 100,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. Although we are not in the EUR, we should show a political message that Croatian small and medium-sized enterprises are politically able to participate in such programmes in the European Investment Bank. So, the EU has strong levers, they just have to show that the Republic of Croatia is equal and that part of the instruments will provide us with Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197601	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Schuker will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, listening to these discussions today, a man asks himself whether we are aware of the situation we are in and whether we are a state and a people who stick to what he signed. So we have three legal proposals that are what they are and we can very hard change them because of this and because of that, we simply adapt to where they are. However, colleagues and colleagues I will continue here, in fact I will continue to debate my fellow Lalovec. Are we aware over the next period of a month and a half, two, three, how much Croatian funding is needed for all of what we have all supported in the Croatian Parliament. So, everything, all political options. Are we aware of how much money it is if this is all going to last up to 6.7 months? Are we aware that the financial opportunities of Croatia and Croatian banks are limited, that at this point we simply cannot close any possible source of income. Or are we aware of which, by what day, if this is like this, we can keep the swear course the way it is. Don't let God make the script happen, not nearly as much as it was with the Swiss to happen to the Kuna. How much would a friend of Croatian citizens grow, how much more kuna would it take for Croatian companies' debts and loans and eventually how much more kuna for the Croatian state to reprogram and to be in charge outside. That's the facts. And now colleagues and colleagues, how much money the Croatian state will need to finance all these measures and those measures proposed by some other clubs, because look at the revenue side of the state budget is devastated, because these 500 or 600 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, their employers, will be helped by the government with the payment of 4,000 kuna and in the largest part of the release of pension and health contributions were paid to the state budget in some past periods at an average of around 3,500 kuna. So when you multiply it by 600,000 you'll see how much money you'll be missing on the income side. However, the expenditure side of what should have been paid on the income side has not decreased, although as far as health care is concerned it has increased. The prime minister and resolution minister have several times stressed that the payment of pensions does not come into any question, it is something that will simply be. And now look at what they pay off their pensions is going to go down pretty much. So, you have to find an alternative to financing that. The only alternative is to be in charge or withdraw if available to you, and among other things, by adopting these 3 laws, God grant us that we of the 1.7. enter the ERM II mechanism and that we have the basis for certain funds from the European Central Bank. So that's something we just have to think about right now. We need to think that every kuna, every EURo we can get so we don't close our doors, we get to it. Because on the one hand, we're going to be in a position not to have enough resources to defend, actually the funds we've defended this course with. On the other hand, all these measures, look at your colleagues and colleagues every step you propose to give someone something or you're going to write something off to the state, because you're going to finance it. You can't say that at this point in time health care that was in so much trouble is not needed because, and the additional involvement of health care personnel and the additional engagement of material technical resources along with this all accident occurred and the earthquake in the City of Zagreb which devastated many health institutions, so these are all the means we should simply obtain. And make sure that both the government and the finance minister and the governor are working very carefully at this point and planning not to close any markets where we could get the money. Because the biggest problem will be, the greatest evil will be if the state can't pay off its obligations in time, if the state becomes an indifference generator, then you're hard on us. At some times I won't speak before, because many like to compare them, it's simply two things that can't be compared and it's hard to compare, but precisely on the trail of what happened before, we can't turn this thing into a negative right now. Because everyone here in the debates mentioned that these measures weigh 75 billion. That 75 billion is not in the state budget. One part will be obtained from the EU's social package, God grant us access and certain funds to help the economy from the European Central Bank, and all else is borrowing. Now look, the central bank has fired 3 percentage points of mandatory reserves to business banks, and in such a way, business banks have come up to about 11 billion kunas of funds, not all assets have been allocated to the state, they have left one part of the funds for the economy and for their own liquidity. So, even when we talk about these domestic banks, we simply cannot ignore them at this point as a very important factor in financing, financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. However, they should also send a clear message to these banks that they must at this time take care of both Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen who have found themselves in trouble, who simply are not working and cannot pay their loans. Now the question is, if someone doesn't work and if someone doesn't come to where will those interest be coming from that they should later pay? Now we've been coming up with what I've been talking about for a month, a month and a half from this pay phone and in an individual debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's responsibility. The responsibility of everyone in this process. And when I talk about these three laws, whether we bring them or not, nothing will change there, but it will change into the perception of those of whom we expect assistance from Croatia, that Croatia has not implemented certain obligations, if they are the prerequisite for us to enter the ERM II mechanism there 1.7, then we with the ERM II mechanism are opening up a series of sources of funds that we unfortunately cannot think about at this time because we are not in the euro zone. And in that way, if we think and if we think, then we're going to avoid empty stories and then here I'm going to lamentate like this, I'd do it like that. However, Minister of Finance, Prime Minister and Resort Ministers in the morning when they come to work know that they have to pay this much here, that they have to pay so much money there, and that there is no income in the state budget because we will only feel what this crown is after 15, 20.4., but economics has brought Croatia first of all to the budget it will be seen, but so far you have not noticed that any target group that receives funds from the budget, whether it is pensioners, whether it is Croatian health, whether it is social aid or help the economy felt that something was happening. Why? Because the government used in the first hand of this financial instrument, in the first run-in of these financial instruments it has, however, the question arises when in a month, everyone comes to this financial market in Europe, how far it will be open to Croatia, and under what conditions Croatia will be able to borrow. The question of whether we'll be able to get to the American market and whether or not we'll be able to be in charge there. So, colleagues and colleagues, and with this I will conclude the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, so I think it is primarily for us at this time to, in addition to these measures that we unanimously supported, and that is a good message to everyone, but also a message to certain financial institutions to provide a source of funding for all that has been waiting for us for a few months. And we won't wake up one morning and simply the crown of the crisis won't be, we simply have to secure the time when life is normalized so that the Croatian economy can start with good predisposition financially because if you don't have a source of finance, then you can't start this one well. And in the end, I have filed a nomotechnical amendment, and I sincerely hope that the proposer of this law will also accept it by the HDZ Club for this. Everything I've said supports these three legal proposals. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197603	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. Now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Miro Bulj, there he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197604	Thank you. Here we see now that very constructive discussions have opened up, essentially the reality of the virus's coronary not only on health problems that we have in the Republic of Croatia and all our capacities and resources that, now invested in the fight, are going to be investing in the fight against this health problem, key issues have been raised in terms of how much funds these are, amounts of funds within this short period of time. I'm talking about the 75 billion packages. But the fact is that at this point, like never before, I was a critical and Eurosceptic towards the EU because I know that the stronger one is always pushing, that we are important to them for the market, but never as now as the European institutions, their banks, their sources of funding, and we are chairing the EU at this moment, we even have a Commissioner within this EU, the European Commission, therefore we, like those who chair, expect that Croatia as a small country, as a country that has, means that it has the potential for development, and which at this point will be terrible, are we now seeing that this crown virus has told us what our situation is in agriculture, what our situation is in the economy, what problems we are in, what is the situation on the market is, that this has never been the bigger moment that this is also a fellow Lalovac said, never greater moment for EU solidarity. If the EU and its bodies are acting as they are at this point towards Italy, and even when it is.../incomprehensible/... the EU money will certainly like it much bigger, and we, I hope we will not stay on the custodial, we are now being helped and now we are being devoid of money, and we are not being tampered with by these laws that are being duped in this moment that we do not know what will happen to the EU. I would only say once more that restrictions i.e. The strokes don't smell like pay for the biggest crisis this moment, my colleague Schucker made a comparison in 2009. The crisis, 2008, '09, everything that came out of it, but that's what my colleague Lalovac said, but at this point it's very important to say that they can't handle the crisis most at this point by the cops, they need to get paid, soldiers, mostly health workers, we said today cleaners have a much lower salary in their homes of health, in hospitals, a lot less that are also doing riskyly and are fighting on the first line of defense, they're getting paid now by the triba. We can't hurt these people right now, but the tribune goes from itself, so the government is on its own, and that's to finally see that our structure isn't functional. I'll never understand why we're tribbing this number of counties. Don't realize that I hate counties, no, I come from Split-Dalmatia County which is the biggest, but the logic of the county doesn't make sense to me and to whom is that level of government even more triba. The County urgently abolished and fellow Schucker could have me, here and the secretary clear to understand, if we abolish the county, the decentralised money that goes to health care, the more it remains in this flow boiler, the stones, the decentralised healthcare funds remain in the county who knows where, the health and health care homes are in a catastrophic situation, the catastrophic mainly in rural areas and the abolition of the county we have huge amounts of money that we can invest where we need to. Croatia is not such a country as to have 20 and some counties. I know it's important that as a voting machine, as an infrastructure, but that's the kind of money they put in the county at 155 local self-government, the local self-government unit. So, first of all, we, as a people who have so much surface, as a people who have been evicted, have to mention a fellow Lalovac, is the important thing that I've always said, we will now have less payments because our people out there won't have any income because they've been fired will be coming back and some have lost their jobs. So tourism is who knows what's going to happen. We have to simply, we're a small people, not tribune so many counties, let's get rid of the county that's already the first move where we'll have some funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197605	Mrs Grozdana Peric will now have her debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197606	Here is a well-respected colleague, my colleague, and a lot of things has already been said, I would only mention with these three laws that, when the first reading started, there was no near sign of the crown of the virus, nor of such possibilities, so the Republic of Croatia, which signed the agreement with the EU itself, was something that was in a certain time a condition for all these mechanisms to be launched. So this is a second reading, so you don't have to tie it all up right now, life needs to stop, but in fact everything you've taken as a serious state, a serious government, you have to do, and in this direction, you really need to coordinate it with what you signed. I would repeat once again that all that is happening in the meantime is very much about all of us. If you only remember the 2020 budget, then you'll see that, let's say, VAT revenue was planned at the time, 55 billion kuna is slightly more than 55 billion, that about 9.3 billion incomes from profit tax, etc., and all of this is now from this perspective when we look at how well we're aware, and he's well aware of both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, which means how much less income will be achieved only by those basics, where customs are, where the contributions and everything else. Therefore, it is very important to find the exact missing part of what we can expect now for unrealized revenues, and at the same time we have a lot of problems and demands and many parties are coming up with various opportunities and demands to help at all levels. And, however, the government itself, in all these measures that are in the first round, and in the second round, has to think very carefully about how everything that has gone well in these last three years, 3.5 years to try to keep or should live and now, but it also needs to live after the crown of the epidemic or pandemic, and no one could have predicted that the problem of the earthquake would also arise which is something that we absolutely couldn't affect either. So a lot of factors that are now much harder from this perspective were, it's much harder to solve all of that now compared to the planning that you did last year when those parameters weren't there. Therefore, these 3 laws actually speak of the seriousness of Croatia which wants to fulfill all that it has negotiated in its negotiations at the end of the day. He also wants to enter the European and monetary and banking union and ultimately come, what colleagues before me have said and to those funds much easier in this solidarity union which will thus open up Croatia's opportunities for all of this to happen not as a single country, but as one of the countries, to get through much easier. Therefore, this must not be related to the weakness of Croatia, which at this time is disowning some of its rights, but rather to its strength and seriousness that it truly fulfils its obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197607	Thank you. Mr. Bull has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197608	Well, my fellow Members, at one point, you said that opposition and MPs are being thrown out by certain measures, and I think the opposition is constructive, that the opposition has accepted and not agreeing with the first package of measures that are weak. We didn't support them, we voted them, the amendments weren't accepted, and then the government took its measures that were identical to what we were proposing, so I wouldn't say that in this case the opposition was essentially the one that was throwing itself away. It's the role of all of us to propose and look for the best tools, and that's how the debate opens. However, the fact is that when you talk about the EU, about the EU's monetary policy, about our euro area entry, about our commitments under the pre-accession treaty, above all we have EU assistance now solidarity aid, not tomorrow, who knows what will be tomorrow, now and now, financial assistance. If they're solid, if they're correct let's not just close into their borders big and their own, that money spends for themselves, for their own purposes, And they have it, we need money and help now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197610	Thank you very much. So, the government has made a very good move on everything that has been a suggestion of opposition and, in fact, I think it's very quality and applied and they've done a lot, and I believe that this government has a reputation and that with everything our president's been doing so far, we will surely find ways how this solidarity is actually going to work and we won't be left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197611	Mr. Shucker, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197612	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you mentioned in one part of your debate and local self-government, so in the Law amending the State Budget Act, the state has committed to giving local self-government units on behalf of the income tax inaccessibles and income tax returns an unscathed loan so that they can bridge it. So, the state has taken over as someone who at this point has a good, so to speak credit ability, can practically be in debt at a very low interest rate to help everyone. And what we as representatives simply have to send a message that we must not close the road, pipe, knock down a bridge or anything according to any source of funding from the EU to business banks, that we can get to those funds because that is the only way we will preserve health and also preserve the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197613	Thank you, time. Answer, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197614	Thank you. A fellow Shuker must not forget that all of this is happening, so by not paying or paying the wages paid when, when the economy normally works, the incomes of local self-government and regional self-government units are reduced directly, and you need to know that from income tax are generally cities or municipalities have at least 40% income from income tax, some more, some less. So now with these measures where every man is saved, every job, but can't be compensated at as much as anyone has realized, instead of 4,000, he's achieved 7,000 or more. So, and it's very important that then and those units of local self-government work because that's actually what What each of us needs. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197615	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic will have the final word on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197616	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In view of the time we already have and your whole day's work, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate and for all those who participated, and they are not present here and also if they allow this, this time to accept on behalf of the Government and the amendment of Agent Ivan Shuker, who is of nootechnic nature in relation to Article 3. Law on CNB code P.Z. 829/3. Thank you very much, once again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197617	Thank you, thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I wish you a pleasant rest of the evening and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 9:30, forgive the audience, tomorrow morning at 9:30 at Hotel Westin will be discussing the amendments, really the amendments this time, and then there will be a vote. Goodbye. Session aborted. Now we're moving on to the amendment statement, there's only one amendment, Mr. Alexic, stay there. The promoter is the Government, meaning the Final Bill of Laws, a pardon, on amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Aleksic. This is an amendment to the article. Four, here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197619	Thank you very much. The amendment is similar to the previous content, therefore it is not accepted for the same reasons. In order to inform the public, let me just repeat that this is about collective, powerful collective judgments that do not overestimate the solution to each individual case that will later take place in the court proceedings. Therefore, it states that the government does not want anything, does not stand, and it is also the court has no sword, I would visit that non-compliance with judgments is a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197620	Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197621	Yeah, it's a felony. You say it's a crime and then you don't accept an amendment that would require banks to return money through the CNB to order them to do so. If it's a crime, then why don't you go after the banks if it's a crime? Then why are you letting banks keep civil money in their hands? Well, it's not a crime for you. You say that, but it's not really a crime. Why? In front of the public, you say one thing and you do the other. You mean one thing, you say the other, you do the third. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't want their money back. If the government of the Republic of Croatia wanted it, the government of the Republic of Croatia would do everything in its power to enable the problem to be dealt with systematically. They've been citizens in courts for 4-5 years, sued banks, and they have to wait 4-5 years. to get their money. At present, there are 30,000 lawsuits against banks, and these proceedings last from 4 to 5 years, and it may take longer. Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia reject all my proposals so far to solve this problem systematically? Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia not want to order the CNB to order banks to act on the basis of a verdict? There's an executive part of the verdict. You don't notice that either. The executive part of the verdict says so. 10., banks are not allowed to behave in the future. The banks did not, after a final ruling, stop using unfair interest, and they had to because the ruling reads so. There's no exaggeration, that's clear. The banks are not after the ruling that CHF currency has stopped using CHF currency in non-converted loans, and the verdict tells them that they have to stop and you say it's a crime, so go after them, you have an inspection, you chase those banks. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197622	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197623	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading, P.Z. Number 830. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Goran Aleksic. We held the statement at the session, and now we're going to vote on that amendment, the government is not accepting it. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act. The result is the next 115 for, 11 abstentions and 4 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197624	Now we're moving on to the next item of the agenda, since I'm here to consult, a moment, thank you. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is, in fact, the final draft law No 829 Final proposal of the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Credit Institutions, i.e. number 830 Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, No 843 is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the final draft law shall apply, meaning second reading, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. With us is Mr. State Secretary Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic who will have an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, as has been introduced before you, are these three legislative proposals of the law all 3 were at the debate in the first reading at the 16th session, with the fact that the HNB Act and the Law on Credit Institutions adopted the Assembly on 21 February and this latter on 28 February. All 3 final drafts of the law have been drawn up with the aim of further harmonisation of the Croatian legal framework with EU regulations in the area of implementation of measures under the Republic of Croatia's action plan to join the European exchange rate mechanism EREM2 and the banking union. As regards the action plan, it includes the implementation of measures in the area of further strengthening the supervisory supervision of the banking system, or further strengthening the supervision of banks by setting up close cooperation between the CNB with the European Central Bank, the development of a macro-prudential, macro-prudential framework for measures aimed at loan users, and the resolution of banks within the banking union. Just to remind you, as you know, the banking union was created in response to the 2008 financial crisis by the EU. Because it has become clear that the problems caused by the high linkage between public finances and the banking sector can easily be spilled across national borders, and cause problems in other EU Member States. Therefore, the objective of establishing and establishing a banking union is to reduce the possibility that bank balances problems are negatively reflected in public finances and vice versa, which ultimately means that bank recovery costs would no longer be borne by the state but primarily by the owners and creditors, as well as by the single recovery fund. The banking union basically consists of 3 pillars, so only if you allow a brief reminder. Thus, the first pillar is a centralised system of bank supervision and started on 1 November 2014 and gives a new framework for the supervision of banks in the EU, made up of the European Central Bank and the National Supervisory Authorities of the Member States and which participate in the supervisory mechanism. Then the second pillar, it is a common system of bank recovery called the "single recovery mechanism" and complements this first pillar and makes it a single recovery committee as a EU-level resolution body. Then the "single recovery fund" as a joint recovery fund financed by the bank sector in the EU, as well as the "national rehabilitation bodies", and as you know with us, these are the CNB, HANFA and DAB. As regards the third pillar, he needed a common deposit insurance system, but it seems that the rules on the establishment of legal foundations between the Member States and the introduction of the third pillar will be discussed for even longer since 2015. So, as far as these laws are concerned, which we have on the agenda today and do not concern the third pillar, but I would only like to highlight the rules and procedures relating to the establishment, operation, management and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, they are regulated by the current law will remain regulated by that applicable law, hence the 2015 Deposit Insurance Act, and the Deposit Insurance System is governed by the State Deposit Insurance Agency and the Rehabilitation of Banks. As regards the final proposal of the CNB Act, it was necessary to review a certain part of these provisions, so that, in the context of the cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank and the bill proposal, the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in the context of close cooperation, and the tasks and responsibilities of the CNB in cooperation with the single resolution committee as part of the second pillar of the banking union that complements, as I said earlier, the single rehabilitation mechanism. In short, he would teach only to present the basics of the bill that we spoke of during the first reading. Therefore, the CNB is foreseen to apply the European Central Bank guidelines instead of international financial reporting standards. The central banks that are not members of the euro system are given the possibility to apply, therefore, the national currency guidelines, therefore before the introduction of the euro, which were so far done by Slovakia, Estonia and Latvia, which later introduced the EURo, and currently used by Poland, and Sweden, even though they still have the Republic of Slovenia's national currency. The introduction of guidelines subsequently influences the need to amend the relevant provisions of the laws relating to the general reserves of the CNB and the calculation of profits and losses of the CNB as well as the need to introduce a category of revolutionary accounts, as well as reservations for risks. In this respect, only general reserves are formed within capital to cover the general risks of CNB operations, and according to the guidelines of the European Central Bank... the profits by exchange rate differences and changes in market prices do not enter in the profit and loss account report or do not enter in the calculation of the financial result. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the schedule of profits and coverage of the loss of the CNB is changed, which is now in proportion to the benefit of the state budget in a way that the income of the CNB is allocated to 80:20 of 20% goes to the general reserve of the CNB and 80% is allocated in favour of the state budget. In the loss of this new one, it would still first cover itself from the general reserves, and if the loss is greater than the sum of the general reserves and if it crosses the height of the general reserves, it would be covered from the profits of the coming years of course. In the event that the total capital of the CNB is reduced by losses from previous years over a longer period of time than the core capital of the CNB, the amount to the capital amount will be secured in the national budget in the next medium term. Furthermore, there are provisions regarding interest rates. It is now prescribed that when the CNB takes the funds and receives the deposit that that interest can be negative. The current CNB task, which has been defined as contributing to stability and the financial system as a whole, has been expanded in such a way as to achieve it through the implementation of macro-prudential policy. Then there's the question of the vault. On this issue, it is determined that the location, construction, construction of the vault itself and the vault business of the CNB are important for the financial, economic and security interests and defence of the Republic of Croatia. International reserves are defined as all forms of assets in foreign currency and precious metals, security checks for certain functions are introduced, authorities of the CNB shall be given the authority to conduct infringement procedures for which the supervision or supervisory supervision is competent and, with the agreement of the Single Sanitary Committee, adopt implementing acts. Certain powers that we had in the first reading of the National Bank's advice on this matter were added as well as the governor's powers mainly in the part and the implementation of macro-prudential policy and in the sense of the adoption of sub-legislative acts. As regards the first reading of this final proposal, certain nomotechnical amendments have been made in accordance with the proposals and observations of the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 15, amending Article 47, which regulates the schedule of profits and the coverage of losses, the provisions are complemented in the event that the total capital of the CNB is reduced by losses from previous years over a longer period of time and when it is less than the underlying capital, in such a way as to ensure the necessary amount to the level of the underlying capital in the national budget in the next medium-term period and to clarify what makes the total capital of the CNB, i.e. the capital of the underlying capital as a general capital of the general reserves, the revaluation accounts and the reserves for financial risks. As regards the Law on Credit Institutions, analogous to those standards that we had within this previous and part of the work of credit institutions, changes have been made in relation to close cooperation, then macro-prudential measures aimed at the credit user where, as the last time we stressed, we could take measures by the People's Bank to determine the maximum possible ratios of the value of the instruments of the insurance of the approved amount of credit when it assesses it. It can then determine and limit both the maximum amount of credit and income generated by the credit user, the maximum amount of payment of the instalments or payments and income, the maximum duration of the credit and the required connection for the method of payment of the credit. Therefore, related to these macroprudential activities previously completed by the provisions of the CNB Act. Then, unlike the current way of working when the Croatian Banks Association calculated, now the CNB is, on the basis of data that the delivery of credit institutions is, for regulatory purposes, calculating and publishing the national reference rate of the average cost of financing of the Croatian banking system, which is needed because of the importance of this, and the reference rate which serves as a index for determining the variable interest rate for consumer credits, so it is now in the jurisdiction of the CNB. The exchange of information on client links, if you remember the application of the General Data Protection Regulation there in May 2018, poses a problem concerning the exchange of data relating to the protection of personal data, is now regulated here by the provisions that this or this exchange is made possible within the banking system to better assess the client's ability and manage and manage credit risk. As regards the difference in the proposal for a law in order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of measures on a credit institution in proceedings against an CNB solution on the imposition of early intervention measures, the introduction of a special administration, the withdrawal of work authorisation and/or decision to open a forced liquidation procedure, the competent administrative court may not decide that the action has a delayed effect nor can it issue a provisional measure as in some cases where the system has been blocked when a certain bank would come into such a situation that it should or even be liquidated that certain measures that have now been in force in the current norm have blocked the procedure and this very blockade of the procedure could have led to the fact that the credit institution itself and failed to take measures itself or to obtain secured savings deposits if it were possible and this could result. This makes it impossible to do so, so the measures would be taken, and of course the party to the proceedings would have the right to press charges against the court and how the case ends. With regard to the party's right to plead on the basis of a recommendation from the European Central Bank, pointed out in point 4 of point 47 of its opinion of 25 March this year, the harmonisation of the provisions in accordance with the standards on procedures managed by the European Central Bank in case of an emergency supervisory decision, in which case the party shall be given the opportunity to show in writing the facts, objections and legal basis if they are relevant to that decision. In addition, the provisions governing the relationship between the variable fixed part of the total income of individual workers are complemented, and a provision on the publication of CNB information is complemented with regard to the publication of sanctions which, in the context of close cooperation, forms the basis of the European Central Bank’s instructions to the CNB. A transitional provision has been adopted according to which all procedures that have begun during the current norm will be completed according to this current norm and nomotechnical adjustments have been carried out in accordance with the observations and proposals of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. And in conclusion, as regards the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, the subject of this Act is therefore the 2nd pillar of the Banking Union or the common system of bank recovery, as I just said earlier, the single rehabilitation mechanism. It is also closely linked to this law that the Law confirming the agreement on the transfer and unification of contributions to a single recovery fund, which was only to remind the Croatian Parliament on 28 February 2020, and since this agreement had the character of the international treaty and there was also the first and second reading together, so that it is not synchronised now in terms of other readings of these legal norms. The relevant Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms regulates the rules, procedures and instruments for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, then the powers and tasks of the resolution authorities, and the establishment, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund and its management. This final proposal for a law draws closer to the implementation of Regulation 806 of 2014. The European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a single, uniform procedure for the rehabilitation of credit institutions and certain investment companies under a single recovery mechanism and a single resolution fund with a view to ensuring uniform financing and resolution of the banking union have been established a single recovery fund that is filled in during the period of 8g. Starting in 2016, and should reach a target level of at least 1% of the amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in all EU Member States, that amount is estimated at around €60 billion, is currently charged at around €33 billion, and with a note, as I was saying in the introduction, so the recovery fund is charged with the burden of banks. The proposal adopted by this law from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank becomes a participating Member State in a single recovery mechanism that provides a centralised mechanism for the resolution of all credit institutions established in the participating Member States. The centralized power of recovery within the single sanity mechanism is entrusted to the Single Renaissance Committee and to the National Renaissance Authorities as it was before in the previous law, so here it is, in this case, the CNB, the HANFA and the DAB. In the case of credit institutions and groups of credit institutions for which the single resolution committee will become directly responsible or competent. Responsibilities and powers to act in the implementation of decisions will be granted to the CNB prior to the decision on recovery itself, and to the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks after the decision on recovery by the Single Sanitary Committee. The right to vote at the plenary executive meetings of the Single Sanancies Committee will have a representative of the CNB when it comes to the issue of the power of the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Savings Deposits and Banks, in accordance with the division of voting powers, will be taken into account, of course, the opinion of the DAB. The draft law provides for the obligation of the institutions to which the regulation applies, to the payment of contributions to the single recovery fund, and to the resolution fund managed by the DAB, and those contributions will be transferred to the single recovery fund. Furthermore, for the purpose of calculating the achievement of the target level of the Sanantia Fund, the amount of the contribution to be transferred to the single recovery fund as well as the funds to be transferred from the Sanantia Fund will be calculated in accordance with the recently mentioned Act on the approval of the transfer agreement and the unification of the contribution that it adopted for this high home just over a month ago. An obligation shall be imposed on institutions and branches of institutions from third countries based in the Republic of Croatia to pay compensation for the settlement of the administrative expenditures of the DAB. As for the expenditure itself, I will briefly do so, so here is the time I believe, and by the final proposal of the law, so as in the previous ones, I will accept the comments and proposals of the Committee on Law and are incorporated into the norm of the law. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. In the case of provisions on infringements of the institutions themselves, infringements are divided into separate points and are in line with the provisions of the normative part of the law, so that it can be easier to connect. The recommendations and enforcement of the decision of the UNSC shall also be further specified that, when initiating proceedings or infringements by the competent authorities, those recommendations must be taken into account, of course, also. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197626	You have several replicas, the first replica was requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197627	Dear Secretary, the people know that it is time, we all know that the time of the crisis is a crown, and you are pushing a persistent EURo, a persistent EURo, and in this way it cannot possibly be, we cannot in any way come to a conclusion, nor do we answer why to the most developed economy of the EU, Sweden, Denmark, the Czech Republic, and Hungary also do not want the EUR-o, you insist now, return that law. When this crisis is over, we bring a moratorium to credit, a year and a year, and we will talk about it, and when the crisis is over, then we will discuss, we will hold a referendum on the EUR and everything the CNB has to do and what it is doing, and in fact everything against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we also know in the case of Agrokor what happened around the currency and many other situations. One, one question, why is it that the most developed economies of the EU do not want to introduce the EURo?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197628	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197629	Thank you very much. So I would say in the introduction that, since we are all clearly in the problem of the coronary virus epidemic these days and that it brings us all together, both health and economic, it is clear that these legal regulations that we now have in the second reading may seem to be in another plan, but in the context of the very intensity in terms of the banking union and the 3 pillars of this same union of these norms do not necessarily mean the introduction of the EUR. Here we are talking about resuscitating credit institutions and vice versa, and when the third pillar comes in the context of the security of savings deposits. We have repeatedly discussed why some economies have decided to introduce or not introduce the EUR. Some countries have also entered the 1970s when neither in mind nor in mind any introduction, this entry into the EU, at least to us as a country. And when you mention Sweden, for example, it uses these guidelines of the European Central Bank together with the Poles, although it also has its currency. So these are different strategies, but we will never enter the EUR-o unless we meet the criteria. I'm afraid after these interventions about the current crisis we'll be beyond that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197630	Thank you. The second amendment has Mr. Schibol, a replica of pardon. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197631	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, it would be good if I had an amendment that would be accepted like this now, but it's not an amendment, it's a replica. I am interested in why this entry into the Eurozone is now being forced, especially during this crown crisis. So, for example, We have Bulgaria, which is in a similar phase as we do, Bulgaria further meets the criteria of nominal convergence than Croatia, but Bulgaria has just delayed its entry into the ERM II course while the pandemic itself is calming down. So I'm interested in what reason did this law come to us now in the assembly instead of focusing on the measures relating to overcoming this pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197632	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, not the amendment, but the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197633	Thank you very much. I wish we had the main concern whether we're going to introduce or not. All these legal proposals that I have mentioned now, as well as this previous agreement for the confirmation of the third pillar, have gone a long way before, before this pandemic occurred and as you can see from all the activities of the government and this high home that we have all directed our forces in this sense to preserve the health of our citizens and to try to secure enough resources to vitalize and maintain as much vital economy as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197634	Thank you very much. The third amendment, and I'm sorry, don't let time run yet, I agree that he was the first just probably not seen for, because of the monitor, I apologize, I don't write it, but Mr. Maras, here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment may be made later, but I will now ask my colleague and give the replica. What I am interested in, and probably interested in all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on moratorium on the rates of loans from our fellow citizens. So we all know what the situation is, Mr. Secretary of State, it's certainly a measure that you should have taken among the first in the Republic so that citizens who are out of a job who are now able to survive will allow a year of moratorium to somehow get on their feet and start working again, eventually be able to get those loans back. I wonder why there's no government response to that, and when are you going to do that? So, why shouldn't the citizens of the Republic of Croatia welcome Easter more peacefully than they will now, since they haven't seen any moves from the government, and wars are coming toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197636	Mr. Zrinasic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197637	Thank you very much. I, from your inquiry before I am experiencing an assessment of the government's measures so far, which I think may need to be recommunicated by someone else, not by a State Secretary who represents three legal regulations that have nothing to do with it, but let me say, however, that yours is not all that you may have received the impression that the Government is doing nothing, on the contrary. If all of this is looked at these days and there has been a vote on here in this high house, a series of legal norms leading in this direction, and one of these steps will certainly be as announced by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance as Vice-President of the Government as the next round that goes, heading towards the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197638	Thank you very much. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras, so we have to give him our word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197639	Thank you very much. In 238 he was injured, I didn't colleague state secretary said the government was doing nothing, I said here today that I would support the laws that were. And last week we also supported certain laws and we propose certain laws. My question to you was because there was no action on the moratorium on loans to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if you understand that the moon is passing, that people are out of work, that there are payments coming, that they can't wait a month for the government to come up with those actions. That's what I was going to tell you, I'm interested in what position you're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197640	Mr. Maras, you know, it's been a while, you know very well that Article 238 doesn't apply to the promoter, you know very well. The motioner did not answer your question according to your judgment. That's right, I mean we can't, you can't do anything, you can't do anything. You can say that next time you're performing. But let's move on, as some have said before. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197641	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary Zrinasic, the Croatian banks have 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is an excess of liquidity, they have 59 billion kuna of capital all of these came back about 15 years when they had only 10 billion kunas of liquidity and some 15 billion kunas of capital seem to me. And now after talking to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the bank decided to offer people moratories, but moratories that account for interest, those agreed interest rates, and which people will pay when the moratorium ceases to operate. So I ask you, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again sit with the banks at the table and try to convince them that these interests are not to be accounted for, and if these banks don't listen, will the Government then prescribe that the banks have to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197642	Thank you, too. Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197643	Thank you very much. As you remember when the government communicated for the first round of 63 measures among which it cited and the ones that you are now citing and when talking to business banks, it was not an impression that it would act the way you have now described it in the sense that it would move this or delay these deadlines of payment of credit obligations rather than that it would find it in a way that these same citizens would not be brought into an even more difficult situation. And in that sense, I think that even daily conversations are being held not only in terms of government as executive authorities, but there is certainly Croatia's people as power, as monetary authority as a very important lever in these and talks and arrangements to find the best solutions for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197644	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Lovrinović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197645	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State cannot be surprised that in a situation like this, a strong destabilization of the economic system of the threat of pandemic to health is not only for Croatian citizens but for the wider part, this government seems to be doing nothing to bring the euro into Croatia as soon as possible. Well, I don't know any other prime minister, the Prime Minister of any other country of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Denmark, Sweden, they are now worrying about their concerns, affirming their national currencies are saving the economy, and he even said here in Parliament the other day that he's sorry and that he's just now seeing how bad it is for Croatia that we're not a member of the euro area, so I think it's just as amazing as if the government lives in another universe, as if you've fallen from Mars. We need kunas, we need to save the domestic economy, so stop being stubborn, get down on the ground, we need to solve our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197646	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197647	Thank you very much. And I don't know what to say but that in the given circumstances when great perception and with full right is directed at some other problems that are not our fault as the authorities or the people came to the Republic, so there are exceptional problems with the epidemic of the coronary virus and all these activities that the government is taking I think they're saying enough in this direction to take whatever is possible at a given time to make timely steps. As for the euro itself, this does not mean that the establishment of close cooperation and accession to the banking union necessarily means something bad to think about a long-term perspective, and since we will get the conditions to enter the exchange mechanism and introduce the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197648	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One question. Today we saw that the CNB has intervened with 2.25 billion euros in the last two weeks, which is a very large amount of their foreign reserves. We also see information that the finance minister has announced that he will be in charge of the domestic market. Now, the question is, since we very much need liquidity for Croatia, and we know that foreign exchange inflows will unfortunately be left behind this summer that there were 10 billion euros, do you have any information on whether the government of the Republic of Croatia will go to the euro market if the euro seems to need not only for the sake of the CNB but also to stabilise the exchange rate and do you have any information about it? Why? Because all this part of the amount created by the CNB is unfortunately not going to reach the economy, and that's the problem now. We have a problem with exchange rates and liquidity and I think maybe now it can be collected in the euro market of money to free the domestic kuna for Croatian entrepreneurs. So do you have any information that will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197650	Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197651	Thank you very much. Here's a recent finance minister you know very well that inside our house such all the scenarios are done in haste with all the simulations and views where money will be available. Of course, in that part, and I repeat, we want to actively include the CNB and in part its foreign reserve role, so the following days should be much clearer those steps that are feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197652	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we are, first of all, following in this part because this is a pandemic, so it has affected not only Europe but we can tell the whole world, I am monitoring the government's reactions primarily in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic because in Slovakia they are in the euro area, the Czech Republic is not in the euro area of their differences, so let's say a practical question. What do you think we lost by that, or what would be the advantage if we were in the eurozone? And the second part, just on the trail of what my colleague before me has said about maintaining the status of stabilising the exchange rate of kuna, do we have how much CNB I think that the Croatian government and the Ministry of Finance are serving the HNB lever to preserve this entire system, how much space is there or is there enough space in your opinion that we can hold a course at this level for three to six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197654	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197655	Thank you very much. A good part of your question would primarily refer to monetary authority, but indeed it shows how much they wanted to affect the rate in terms of lowering the reserve to the banks by 3% points, freeing more than 10 billion kunas in financial flows to reduce the rate in terms of the increase in the euro rate compared to the kuna. In that sense, for such activities, if we were in the euro area of course there would be no, but in some other monetary interventions we now have certain advantages in relation to the situation if we were in the euro area. So by combining all these mechanisms depending on where you're in a situation it certainly isn't unequivocal to say better is this, it's better that. So in some foreseeable future that doesn't have to be said tomorrow, we decided as a people to be EU members and to introduce the euro. And in that sense today we are also talking in the context of these three laws and entering the banking union system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197656	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Does he want to take the word of the board representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Marin Škibola, who will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197657	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Here is today in this period of crisis with the pandemic we are in the Croatian Parliament coming to amend and supplement the laws relating to the implementation of the euro into the Croatian monetary system. This is not good at all because the introduction of the euro is one process that requires the involvement of citizens, the inclusion of professions and the involvement of all other relevant actors in order to move in this direction at all to introduce the EURo. Therefore, these discussions in HS on the introduction of the EUR, and we know that there is a major crisis with the crown and that the eyes of the public are pointed at the crown is very bad, very bad that you have now chosen this timing for these laws. What we should say is that without a referendum we should not discuss these laws at all, especially when we know that all the polls, all the important polls, and one of the important polls was made by the Eurobarometer, so official EU polls say that Croatian citizens are against entering the Eurozone. So over 50% of Croatian citizens are currently opposed to the introduction of the EUR and thus access and the EREM2 course mechanism. Obviously, the Croatian government does not care, so they are not interested in the thinking of Croatian citizens, and during this crown, in some ways, the public interest that would be according to the introduction of the EUR from Croatian citizens to be referred to what is happening is somehow avoided and obstructed. Bulgaria and Romania are in similar stages as we are in the field of access and the EREM2 course mechanism. For example, Bulgaria has far better met criteria for nominal convergence than the Republic of Croatia. So Bulgaria has a much smaller, multiple public debt than the Republic of Croatia, has a much smaller deficit and has much less than some other elements that mean they meet the criteria of nominal convergence. Therefore, and ultimately, the Bulgarian prime minister decided to stop joining the EREM2 course mechanism by 2021, meaning the crisis with the crown does not go to their assessments. Because he needs to be aware that after this health problem with the crown, we are followed by a major global economic crisis. And the question arises how will the Republic of Croatia be raised in this global economic crisis, how the Eurozone itself will be set up, means the Eurozone members, and it is wise to wait, why force the rise in the Eurozone when we don't know how things are going to happen, I simply don't understand it, and we see that other countries are also being guided by this example. So Bulgaria stops, waits for what happens. It is a wise sovereign policy and I do not understand why this is being forced, especially when the eyes of the public are focused on these health, health problems, and today we should discuss here in the assembly some financial measures, e.g. which the CNB can make, rather than the measures to introduce the EUR. Also one news that is not so public-recognized is that Italy and France have asked other euro area member states to issue a crown bonus because of the coronary crisis. So, a corona of bonds where all euro area Member States would somehow take part of their scope in overcoming this crisis that will arise after a health crisis, after a health crisis, means overcoming the economic crisis that arises after this health crisis. And here, it is the most initiated by Italy, but also by Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria are strongly opposed to the proposal. And then the issue of solidarity is also raised, meaning EU Member States. Because we can observe this solidarity through the fact that we are now sending 20 medical personnel to another Member State and that is solidarity. Yes, it's solidarity, but it's minor solidarity. So this kind of crucial thing is seen as how homogeneous the EU is. And the EU is not homogeneous, but very heterogeneous, because we see that certain euro area Member States such as Germany and the Netherlands do not want to help Italy, France and some other countries such as Spain in overcoming the economic crisis in such a way that they too bear part of the economic problems that these Member States will have. It should be said that the CNB has intervened, it intervenes most in maintaining the stability of the exchange rate, maintaining the kuna, but has not intervened in the context of greater monetary involvability, means that it starts, to start with the primary emission available to it. So this primary show, it's called the economic term "ex niil" creating the possibility, creating the money, that's exactly what America did. So Trump pushed a certain amount of money through his Federal Reserve Central Bank and passed it on to the citizens' accounts and to the accounts of medium and small enterprises. Why did Trump do it and why do some other countries do it? Because they are aware that this is the period when big state spending will be needed. So this is the period when the state will have to be betrayed, very generous in that financial sense, and that takes money. How do you get that money? It's either borrowing or creating. Some Member States, not only of the EU, but also of the world, are moving through the printing of their own currency and thus helping the economy. My opinion is that this is a much better direction because we will be in charge of huge sums of money, and these international financial institutions, banking institutions, private institutions when we are in charge, they will also ask for something in return. Mostly what international financial institutions are looking for in return, such as the International Monetary Fund, which has been tried in all other countries, many other countries are seeking deregulation, demand a reduction of the public sector, means firing, saving, wage reduction means these financial institutions are going in this direction to privatise everything, that the state no longer has any authority, and then raises the question which is the role of democratically elected governments in the elections when all power is concentrated in these narrow financial centres. So, then we don't need to have any choices at all, we can put a technocratic government there that was in Italy, put this Maria Montia and then let him, let him run that policy for us, and this is all a game that will end up very badly. The CNB has reduced the mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% so it opened up to the banks that potential, so it opened up the credit potential so it's going to have a lot more capital now and the banks really won't feel this crisis. So the banks certainly won't feel this crisis, but they're waiting for the moment for this crisis to pass now, they know they'll all be forced to borrow from the banks and then they come into effect. Therefore, banks will benefit the most and certain large corporations of this crown, and they will certainly and certainly use this crisis to accumulate power and to actually centralise that power and do so by these measures. So the banking union is just centralizing power, so it's just centralizing power and all of them, these other institutions financial that aren't in that banking union scheme are falling out of any game. So we should finally come up with a model of taxation of financial institutions because financial institutions must contribute to Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197658	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mrs Vesna Pusic, who will speak in front of the GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, 3 laws, CNB, credit institutions and the rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment companies. All 3 laws should not be ashamed and justified in my opinion at all, all 3 laws go towards accelerated alignment with the rules of the European Monetary Union and an accelerated preparation for the introduction of the EUR. As many have said, of course, we don't know what the world will be like after the crown of the virus, what will happen, anything can happen, no one could have predicted the same thing. So the final decision to join the European Monetary Union, the moment of entry, will be made at the time of the introduction of the EUR, but these laws are prepared for it. It didn't start today, it began partly by our entry and signing the accession contract, but it actively started if you remember I don't know now in mind when it was exactly, but I think it has a year of that presentation of the whole strategy of Croatia's entry into the European monetary union and the introduction of the EUR and since then it's kind of been a project that it's realized. So he hasn't started now, and he won't even finish now. In other words, the fact that we are harmonising the legislation that has made a note of the Bene and many countries, namely not many of them because there are not many of them, but some EU countries that do not have the EUR and have not finally introduced the EURo have harmonised their legislation with, in this area, the rules of the European Monetary Union. The truth is that it's my impression, too, and I have to say by talking in GLAS about it, our impression is that one of the reasons why it's accelerated is that you'll be able to confirm it or disprove it. One of the reasons why this is being harmonised so quickly is the Croatian interest in obtaining access to the guarantees and financial instruments of the European Central Bank and the recovery fund, which we will need, the EUR will need especially without, in this crisis and without the tourist season, but otherwise after the crisis has passed, and will pass and after people do not work as long as they are not, we will see how long it will last but certainly every day is a long and burden, this type of assistance, and that kind of intervention will be absolutely necessary and I see no reason at all, first why we should be ashamed of it and secondly that we are interested and secondly why we would deny ourselves the possibility of taking advantage of it. So, to have access to all these let's say the financial instruments available within the European Monetary Union. These are not the crown laws, of course, it's the truth. Although the fact that harmonising allows us to be able to work more closely with the European Central Bank after the crisis can certainly help us, but in a strict sense these are not the crown laws and here as one footnote I am asking, we are not against these laws, we are for these laws, but why do we not have concrete corona laws here that we should have? As a result, many of the things that people have said here, I will not go into details about it now, but from what my colleagues have said it is clear that neither here in the Parliament is the situation of whether there is a moratorium on the repayment of the loan, there is no, whether the moratorium will then be paid interest on these loans, so that all of this will look expensive, and we should also have one package of financial laws that would focus on the crown crisis so on this situation. These aren't except in this circumstantial sense that I mentioned at the outset. Therefore, these are not laws with limited duration, such as all those relating to the crisis, they are permanent, they bring additional competences, rules and structure regarding the adjustment of the CNB to cooperation with the European Central Bank and the rehabilitation funds, and they are putting Croatia in the direction of putting Croatia in that specific position of candidates for entry into the European Monetary Union. What actually seems somewhat unusual to me is that on the one hand the independence of the CNB is emphasized, especially in art. 4th is something that otherwise exists and is guaranteed, however, it is then particularly taxing its independence in 12 concrete areas or policies. On the other hand, the same law also defines articles which cease to be valid on the day of the introduction of the euro, a total of 19 articles either fully or partially concerning it, including that same article. 4. which is now expanding, which now defines the independence of the CNB in 12 very specific areas or policies. This article ceases to apply, therefore, to all these tax-listed independences cease to be valid with the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia, as regards the independence of the CNB, and this raises the question why they are now, with one law which de facto prepares Croatia for entry into the monetary union, why these 12 areas are now particularly stressed by water. In particular, relations between the CNB and the European Central Bank are regulated where the behaviour and position of Croatia are defined as close to what would be our status if we were a member of the monetary union. The behaviour and resolution of credit institutions and cooperation with the European Recovery Fund is defined, I think it will be a particularly important topic. There's also a definition of violations, so I don't want to go into those details right now. Reading the laws, reading some of the dates on which it is referred here, would be concluded even though I have to say it nowhere, it writes explicitly anywhere, but it would be concluded that some target date for Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union is, in other words, the introduction of the euro in 2024-2025, from this regulation proposed here. So, it's 4 to 5 years from now, where we're going to be and how things are going to look 4 to 5 years from today is a question, we can't predict it at this point, but if what I'm reading from these proposals of the law is that it's 2024 or 2025. then it's certainly not something that's right in front of us, we can say it's pretty fast, but it's certainly not something we're not going to have a chance to discuss yet and we're not going to have a choice yet. Since GLAS considers Croatia's entry into the European Monetary Union to be a good goal for 4 to 5 years, we will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197660	Thank you, too. Mr. Scibola answered. Here you go, replica. ... Stanku? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I make mistakes with you every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197661	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Youth List Club because I don't think we should be discussing the introduction of the euro today, we should actually discuss the measures that will overcome this crown crisis both in health and in economic terms. Therefore, using this situation where the eyes of the public are directed at the crown crisis for the introduction of the euro is extremely immoral and extremely incorrect towards Croatian citizens because Croatian citizens are mostly against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Eurozone and all relevant statistics show this. Therefore, using this distraction now means using when the public is focused on other problems to push the laws to introduce EUR is a very bad message to the Croatian public, especially when we know that the countries which, meaning EU Member States that are also approaching the Eurozone have delayed this path like Bulgaria, so Bulgaria is in the same situation, but Bulgaria has delayed the entry into EREM 2 course mechanism until 2021. Because of the crown of the crisis, and Plenkovic is trying to push us into the Eurozone urgently, although it is not wise at all, although it is not positive and useful for the Republic of Croatia at this time because it means that we will turn all sovereignty into the hands of the European Central Bank, and we see that at present the central banks are key to defeating this crisis through an independent monetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197662	Another break, I guess, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197663	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia and the Living Wall I'm looking for a break of at least 5 minutes to consult because we simply can't understand that at this time when we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow because we're having problems with the pandemic of the virus, when other countries are shaking, above all Italy where it is at the heart, but also other countries as soon as this crisis is over, it's going to be a difficult, economic crisis. The majority owners of banks in the Republic of Croatia are Italian banks and Austrian banks. I simply cannot come to myself and respected citizens that the prime minister, the Prime Minister of our government, is pushing so much, insisting on the introduction of the EUR, while all other governments and their leadership are now standing by, watching what is happening, there is, for that time. We need kunas now. We need our central bank now. And what does the Prime Minister want? So he wants to transfer you see responsibility from yourself to Brussels, to Frankfurt, to this institution, to that institution. Well, that's not how you run the country. He said here the other day, please, tell us, you see now how bad it is that we are not members of the Eurozone and that we have not introduced the EUR-o. Why? To beg there for, according to Frankfurt, to give us a billion, two, and here from their central bank, we need kunas, we can borrow as much as we need. We don't need this servant policy. We want a sovereign monetary policy, economic policy, and we want to exploit our central bank that we have. And now it's coming out what we're saying. The other day there's an English central bank, 200 billion pounds will buy state bonds directly. Well, she's a national, she's a central bank of that state. I call upon citizens, if there is nothing else, nothing else possible, to defend our kuna in a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197664	Thank you, time. I'm approving a break of 18 hours and 16 minutes, so you and Mr. Schibol can consult. No, Bull didn't ask. [[I Bulj, and Bulj.]] THE PURPOSE We'll continue to work after the meeting. Mr. Miro Bulj will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197666	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia in the Eurozone, the laws that have been passed here before us at the moment when the crisis over the crown shakes the whole world, and mainly our neighbours, and mainly the economic situation, the economic situation where people, all EU citizens, and so the Republic of Croatia feel insecure and of course we see that at a time when the Republic of Croatia holds the presidency of the EU, I don't know, in the last 10-15 days if anyone has mentioned that at all, that the Republic of Croatia is the EU chairman, which means that all members have withdrawn themselves, we see the case in solving their problems and, of course, that here, the Secretary of State will question what I am as a parliamentary representative and interested in. First of all, I see this moment, as I said, that all the members have retreated themselves and watched each and every one of them after washing their fingers, not by washing each other's hands by looking at their own interests, we see here and here we see the case in Italy that was happening, there was not some solidarity of the strongest European states. We see that many politicians, mainly in our neighbouring Italy, are so disgusted with the solidarity they are calling on the EU, and the Republic of Croatia is presidencies, I see that they are removing flags from institutions, offices from the EU because it is simply such a mistrust. And now with the law pushing the EUR in the Republic of Croatia at the time of this crisis, it is minimally, slightly said hypocritically and unculturally respected secretary because I don't know, I don't know why now with these laws, when we see that the foundations of the country have been mired, and the foundations of the EU, and I literally don't know if there's anything more to connect the EU than maybe financial lobbies and banks that want to control continue to preserve that monopoly. My key question to you as a man from the ministry, which is why there are no other countries that are significant before us in the EU, which are significantly more economically and economically advanced than we are, for example. Sweden. Why didn't Sweden introduce the EURo? Why didn't Denmark do it? A much richer state? Why isn't Hungary? Why isn't the Czech Republic having big economic growth? I don't see any reason why we're going undercover at this time of the economic crisis, the health crisis that caused this economic crisis, when this health care goes through, we're going to see just how many effects this crisis is going to have, I don't know what the reason is. I think it would be the most honest thing to pull this off, and ultimately who should decide on all this, ultimately on the EUR, entering this, essentially this introduction of the EUR? In the end, it would be up to the people to decide. He can't be aware of Governor Vujčić, he can't count on the prime minister and their politics. They were not given so much legitimacy by the people, and neither was this parliament. So I think that in this crisis we're going to solve the problems we have, which is also in power, and among other things, the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it's a moratorium on the implementation and moratorium on loans of a year, I think that law should have been today. The opposition is that, the Most Independent Lists proposed it, the SDP as an opposition also suggested it. I don't see any reason why these laws aren't here for discussion and that tomorrow we vote on it and that our citizens have a quieter time when Easter is. Here I apologize, SDP and counterpart Alexic also moved, and MOST also proposed this moratorium bill on loans and the moratorium also put to effect. So, at this point when banks are liquid, when, when they cheaply placed money, experts tell me in conversation with them that this is a huge difference from the crisis that was before 2009 from now on. Then there was no money on the market, now there is. that banks are liquid. So, I would ask you here to have this cowardly egg that you're running around as the Government of the Republic of Croatia along with Governor Vujcic to pull this agenda item, because this is for a much wider debate, these points are for discussion with the people who debate this public i.e. a public debate that will last longer and, of course, the people ultimately decide on this referendum. I don't know why in the Republic of Croatia when the crown crisis is all closed, everything is allowed except domestic markets. It is allowed here we see now and the Law for the introduction of EUR preparation, it is allowed for teleopers who are foreign to set base stations, no one interrupts them, until people are allowed markets, they are not allowed at 2m to go to church or even to Easter. But the teleoperators and you who are lobbyists of foreign banks, the EUR with the help of the CNB are pushing this now, and people don't smell like 2m difference or 5m difference, no matter, for Easter. You can't open up the blizzard, but this law is so urgent that it's gonna get us out of the Vujčić visionary and it's gonna save us from this, uh, introduction of EUR into the Republic of Croatia. So now that the state, here we are chairing, I repeat, when in the last, we chair the EU, when in the last 15 days it has been mentioned that we are the EU's chairman? Niko, all the states shut themselves up and mind their own business. You're the only one... A race in the Brussels corridors. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll give you when they see you, they'll give you everything you have. They'll give you anything worse, don't worry. Look at the Italians as far as they are... not a meaningful secretary, they'll give you Euro sacks like in agriculture what they couldn't do to us, just as a market we serve them. Therefore, I think you withdraw this law, these cowardly eggs that you push us into a crisis when the Croatian people are dismayed, freaked out, when they fear for their health, the whole nation. Don't beat the cowardly eggs into this time, now here's what, 6:30 a.m., come out nice and pull these laws. Put the Moratory Act on the record, give me the law to interrupt the performances over all the performances, and most of all here I see this fellow Scybola, I think I'm thinking of a savings credit association of Raiffeisen banks that won't sleep peacefully in this crisis. They've had a crisis a long time ago, and they don't behave like this savings credit cooperative in their own countries. He can't do that to Hungary, and he can't do that to his country in Austria because they're criminals there. He can't treat our citizens that way. When they have had all the property that their great-great-grandfathers and dids have built for centuries, they will take away their property, and they will never be able to repay that loan because these loans have been so unlawfully made. The CNB is silent. They're pushing the euro now, they'll save you. Instead of you and the Croatian Bank seeing ways and models how to finance this system now, with this money that has the CNB. People's, it means people's money from buying bonds to ways of other funding and helping the government in these measures that should be much sharper. So once again, I do not understand, nor can I understand, that at the moment when the whole nation is, the whole of Europe is, but the entire Croatian nation is in fear of health problems. In isolation, people can't go from municipality to municipality, literally from village to village, people don't go to jobs. You push this law when I can't, I said and I'll say it, I can't go to church for Easter no matter what the measure. Two metres from each other, this is how they don't smell. So we can't do that either, we can't go to the domestic markets the same way that we stick to measures. Wherever it comes to domestic matters, our interests, our citizens, it can't be done, but you can push this into the euro. That's what you do very well. How long have you been paid for this since the money crisis is the EU's chairmanship. So look at the Italian neighbors who send messages to EU leaders. The flags take it off, they go down there, they roll it up, and then they take it down. And you now, you are calling for that and such an EU that is fragile now. No Schengen, no, every single one of its borders has been closed. You can't go through normal now, how you're gonna get through. And we don't know what's going to happen, but this law is a coward's egg, and don't throw this coward's egg into the nest at the moment when the people are in fear, freaked out, in fear, and you can trick whatever you want, and you won't. No matter what is not popular to say now, the triba worship you, you who have brought us into these problems where Croatia is not self-sufficient, now the triba worship you, the triba clap every night from the window. No, you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197667	Mr. Ivan Lovrinović will speak in front of the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197668	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I especially welcome you, dear citizens. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on credit institutions, on the rehabilitation of credit institutions in the context of the formation of a banking union, the EU banking union, as well as changes to the Law on the Croatian National Bank. You see, Croatia is already ten years ago the constant push towards the EU that was the key explanation for us citizens, we will be better in each area, we will be better in agriculture, today Croatia barely produce half of what it once produced. It'll be better in finance, you see 92% of the banks sold to foreigners, interest rates have been the most in the past 10 years, we've remedied them with 50 billion kuna, we haven't recovered anyone so expensive, etc. Dear citizens, do we have reason to believe that entering the European Banking Union of Croatia will make our money safer in banks in Croatia or not? Well, I've given up the previous concept of exposure, so I'm going to tell you something now to see what's really going on there over the Alps in the north because the EU is working, there's a division across the Alps where these over the Alps look high and they think we're down half lazy, lazy, wasteful, etc., and so on and so forth. Now, let's be specific, you know that we from the party change Croatia do not like hollow stories, forgive this expression. Were our deposits and savings safer in such a banking union? Here's an example, the biggest problem not only of the EU banking system, the euro zone, but of the whole of Europe, and possibly of the world is Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. And do you know why? It is the nightmare of Angela Merkel, the German government, the German Parliament and the people, as well as the European Central Bank. Why? Because Deutsche Bank had become one of the largest, practically hedge funds in the world 20 years before 2008, so 15 years ago, it became one of the largest, practically hedge funds in the world. At one point she had $76,000 billion, I repeat $76,000 billion in financial derivatives, as it is said professionally. It fell to 46, now about 30,000 billion, and no one living in Germany knows how to save that bank and the commercial bank, but the far greater problem is Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank is a time bomb under the German economy and state, and thus the Eurozone. Now, when you and Mr. Plenkovic and your government convince me that this problem with Deutsche Bank will be resolved and that it will be good, then I will support this law. And secondly, this is, Lady God knows how to solve the problem with Deutsche Grandma. You see, I came here to the Parliament of dear citizens to speak arguments, professionally, not to invest in you, but to face an open problem. You yourself assess after what I have told you whether or not our deposits and yours would be safer in the Eurozone, in that EU banking union. We live in a world where financial institutions have become the most dangerous part of the economy, the world economy. Why? Because that's where it's thought in the neoliberal doctrine that money should be made money, lex money made money, and that's what came the day to collect it, that's what ended it. Unfortunately, a lot of the world is going to get hurt, the economies just because of this. Another example, Italy. Italy is the largest owner of Croatian banks, then Austrians. The Italian banks in their assets have about EUR 700 billion in Italian debt, Italian government liabilities, 700 billion in total of 2200 billion in total public debt. Imagine tomorrow starting to shake Italy, which will be with their banks, so they are the owners of the largest part of Croatian banking. My people, it's time for deep thinking, but based on the arguments, not on ideological approach, jump, or media propaganda that is spreading these days. And what I'm particularly concerned about as a man and a representative is that a citizen is surprised or afraid that this crisis, the coronary crisis, is being used, you see when people in houses are in fear, that here when no one thinks, that some laws are being pushed here to get past it as soon as possible and to get the RH into a fast train towards Greece. All of you who advocate the introduction of the EUR in this situation, are you people aware of your wishes? Beware of your wishes. Think carefully, it's not just about you, it's about our children, our future. Now it is time for the kuna, for our central bank and for the CNB to show that the Croatian people and banks are. What did the English Central Bank, or their government, do a week ago? They, they will broadcast, they have already broadcast, 200 billion government bonds in pounds and will buy them directly from the Bank of Finland. You see, the neoliberal doctrine has so far placed and preached that the central bank must be completely independent of the state and the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because God's country needs to be expelled from all segments, and if the state wants to be in charge of business banks, let them pay for it. You see, that's a great explanation. In these situations, however, it is quite expensive to force the state to be in charge of business banks, it is equal to suicide, because a country in a situation as difficult as it is today in the EU and the Republic of Croatia and elsewhere should exclusively be in charge of its central bank. All those who today, and I hear here, are looking to be in charge abroad, so you people are the same, so you're here about 15-20, so you've learned to rule on debt. The CNB can grant loans in kunas as long as it takes. If it's about foreign exchanges, we have a net foreign exchange reserve of EUR 17 billion, we don't need them. But as a man, besides being a 30-year-old politician. It deals with international finances and monetary policy and the international economy, and now the CNB has entered a phase where it will decide where it cannot fast two goals. Which one? It can no longer maintain a stable exchange rate and such major interventions towards the economy. One, or one or the other. We from the Party Change Croatia and our economic experts, we strive to change the priorities of the goals. In the first place, saving production and employment. On the second, third, stability of exchange rate prices, etc., etc. That is why I call for reason, I call on the Government to refinance all debts of the general government on the domestic market. That's when I came to the assembly three years ago. Some of you laughed here, and now you'll have a Czech. In order for us to do this, I asked the Government before 3 years ago, to abolish the foreign currency clause or to translate all debts, whether in bonds or loans made in the Republic of Croatia, and to tie to a currency exclusively into kunas. And my fellow citizens to ask you a question, and both your colleagues and colleagues in the assembly. The world is shaking, the Eurozone is shaking which can fail, as is this EUR-o project, it is always a real danger. If you have EUR 1,000,00 or EUR 10,000,00 and the euro is ruined, where you will replace those EUR and who will pay you the equivalent of my fellow colleagues and colleagues. One technical child question, but think about who's going to replace you? Do you want to maybe go to Germany? Do you want the RH? It's the money of a nonexistent state. There is no state, the EU is not a state. So it's time of the knowers, the determined people, the state's moves and we introduce, we defend the kuna, it's our currency we take advantage of. Our central bank. [[/Intruder: Mr. Lovrinović's time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197669	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197670	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have before us 3 Laws amending and supplementing different laws, one on CNB, two on credit institutions, and I propose as a representative of the SNAGA Party the amendment to the CNB Act and amendments to the Credit Institutions Act. First of all, because there is no direct application of the collective judgment, so people who have the right on the basis of a collective verdict to exercise their rights forced to seek their rights, these courts last 4. 5. Six years old, some will die before they reach their own money, and accordingly I suggest some changes to speed it up a little bit. I will first read these amendments exactly as I propose them, and then in the Law amending the CNB Act, I propose that they be in Article. 89. add a sub-assembly. The 10th vote, which refers to the tasks of the CNB, would thus be that one of the tasks of the CNB would be to require credit institutions to act in accordance with a enforceable collective ruling relating to a specific credit institution if the collective ruling found that the credit institution damaged consumers by applying unfair contractual provisions. Also in the amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions in Art. 11. I would like to add to Article 4. that, analoguely to these amendments in the CNB Act, the CNB is competent and obliged to impose on credit institutions the conduct in accordance with a powerful collective ruling relating to a specific credit institution if the collective ruling found that the credit institution damaged consumers by applying unfair contractual provisions. Collective judgments are declaratives, they say banks have or some other traders have done so and that and that, it was wrong, it was unfair and therefore it is not valid and because these traders are not worth it now have to pay the consumers the money they paid on the basis of these some unfair contractual provisions. And on the basis of such a declarative judgment, consumers have the right to ask in courts their own money. However, the State may, however, and should and should go further than that, and should go further than that, Directive 93/13 in Article states. 8. which says that in order to ensure the highest level of consumer protection, Member States may adopt or maintain the strictest provisions compatible with the Treaty in the field to which this Directive relates. In other words, they can go beyond what is prescribed to be achieved in a way that can be collectively protected, and then, on the basis of a collective of a powerful verdict, they can determine how to systematically damage consumers. That's how I personally confirmed the European Commission last year in September. In May, I asked for an answer to the question of whether the Republic of Croatia could, on the basis of a collective ruling, pass a bill that would systematically damage all consumers in such a way as to order banks to return unfairly acquired money and the European Commission has confirmed to me that the Republic of Croatia can do so. I quote part of the European Commission's reply: The EU Court of Justice has also confirmed that it is in accordance with Article. 8. Directive 93/13, which I have just quoted, Member States may provide consumers with a higher level of protection than those provided for in that Directive. Directive 93/13 therefore does not prevent Member States from introducing in national legislation an obligation under which traders are obliged to return to consumers on the basis of contractual provisions considered unfair. Accordingly, I propose amendments to the HNB Act and to the Credit Institutions Act, that the CNB be the most professional body in this regard, to make a certain commitment in the form of a decision, or to order banks to act according to a collective verdict because banks did not act as first in the executive part of the collective judgment, and the executive part of the collective judgment is very simple to say. The 10th rulings, banks are not allowed to behave in the same way or otherwise in the future, and after the ruling became final, the banks did not stop acting as such, but continued in all credits where they did not contract interest rate change parameters to continue to apply an unfair interest rate, and in loans not converted from CHF to EURo they continued to apply increased CHF rates, and by collective judgment they should not do so. I therefore propose these amendments that are very simple and that would finally require the CNB to behave in accordance with its role that the CNB has never acted on before, unfortunately. Furthermore, what I may be missing in the Credit Institutions Act, but I didn't propose anything, is a commitment to banks, credit institutions to implement a moratorium on the credit obligations of non-equity citizens and non-learn businesses at this time of crisis in such a way that the moratorium is not applied to interest, agreed interest. The banks sort of listened to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which apparently talked to banks about moratorium and the banks offer consumers moratorium, but these moratories are such that they account for agreed interest and they reach after the moratorium has stopped. This increases the obligations of citizens who are in crisis anyway. I appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the government of the Republic of Croatia to talk to the banks again, to get them to offer moratories with no interest for 3+3 months. I, with the SDP, propose a moratorium law that would be 12 months, but here's some government 3+3 months if the crisis continues to be half a year in total and that citizens who are not liquid can temporarily stop paying their annuities without accounting for agreed interest. Because the moratorium they offer banks is a common moratorium, it's nothing new, it's banks before offering people who come into crisis when they ask for it. So that's not it. The other thing to do is enable moratorium to leasing, leasing houses. Now they're threatening people by taking away their resources for work, bus, I don't know, other means of transport that are under Leasing, they can't drive, they can't make money, they can't pay off Leasing, they'll take away his vehicles, and that's what needs to be prevented, we save those people who deal with transport. So Leasing is also one, one part of the system that needs to be covered by a moratorium, also without paying fees and interest. And finally, the last thing I read in "The Morning List" on Friday night at 21:30 is an article saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a break, a delay in the execution of a pardon, for 3 months, and in this impasse, there will be no heavy interest charges, so a delay in both the tight interest and the deblocking of citizens' accounts so that they will have full amounts of their income and that is certainly a very good thing if that happens. What I miss about what I read is what's going to happen to companies that are now suspending part of their pay due to performance. I don't see that part being solved, that it's being prepared as a solution because the Financial Assets Act does not include this situation where the company suspends the worker from part of the salary. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and to make this solution comprehensive, to definitely stop for, to stop all executions, not to, to, to avoid tightening interest and to refer to the tasks that go through the FINA and to the tasks that are dealt with through the employer in a way that it suspends part of the salary and pays it, and pays that part to the believer. I hope that this will all be resolved as announced, and I welcome that approach to solving the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197671	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Boris Lalovec, who will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a united debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the CNB Act, then the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, and the Law on the Rehabilitation of Credit Institutions. So, all of this would be fine, the SDP will support these laws and means there are no problems, this part of the EU alignment. However, today a fundamental question is being raised, what is a colleague of Bulj and what we have heard today, about the survival of the EUR and the Eurozone, that is, in the way they behave today. Honestly, with all the support we provide, it will depend on how the Eurozone or Eurozone members, or the entire European Commission, will treat the Republic of Croatia. We, in front of us in the coming period, will certainly need a lot of European funds in the country. Today we saw that the CNB with a response of about EUR 2.2 billion in the last 3 weeks, their foreign exchange reserves are about 19 billion, which means if at this rate we spend foreign exchange reserves we're about 3-4 months away, as far as the CNB foreign reserve is concerned. On the other hand, we expect every summer to receive €10 billion inflows, which stabilized, strongly stabilised the course. We won't be able to make this summer half that amount. It certainly depends, I recently said that the liquidity of maintenance in the system that the state needs to fulfil its obligations within the time limit it can reach better liquid assets, as well as in other words, depends on what the EU budget ratio will be to our Croatian national budget. That is where all EU solidarity will actually be seen. If this money is to come to the EU, from the EU budget, for, from the Social Fund for Payment, that's what we read in the media somewhere that the European Commission has approved some EUR 100 billion, out of which EUR 1.1 billion goes to the Republic of Croatia to pay these salaries, these EUR 8.5 billion, if we have to wait until New Year's Eve, the question is how does the Croatian Government endure such pressure. On the other hand, it is necessary to see that the European Commission, or from the media, has actually seen that they have said that they will flexibleise the use of EU funds, which means that it seems to me somewhere around EUR 1 billion is still around, we will see when these dynamics of funds will come into the Croatian budget. So this is where the solidarity of the European Commission and the EU towards the Republic of Croatia is seen. So we will not slave with whether we need EUR-o 2015, we need the EUR-o today in the context of the stabilisation of the exchange rate. No EUR-o as a currency, we need and therefore access to the European exchange rate mechanism now, their instruments so that we can enter the euro bond market. A fellow Shuker will likely tell you what kind of crisis he was experiencing in 2008-2009. when it could not be placed on the market, it could not be placed on the market. Today we probably wouldn't be able to get into the dollar market like the situation in America today that we need our budget a question is you can't get into America. So it's a question of how we can access it. Minister Maric made as much as he could with regard to kuna liquidity, there was a very high-quality work with the CNB, a part of the reserve was fired, and Minister Maric actually stabilised this part of the kuna that needs to be financed by the state's cold drive. The question is, what about the euro part is that we know that many companies have commitments in the euro, so we don't have, we don't have an inflow from foreign exchanges, many companies have in the euro, and all of these commitments that we still have for the EUR will be pressure on us, and the only sources we can get if there is no tourism are EU funds and the EU. And if we can't access, and you know when it opens, the European Commission has said somewhere around 2,000 billion that it will release, very similar to the package that the United States has made, 2000 billion euros that it will be on the market. However, if they are found there, and what the colleague was saying, the Italians and the Spanish who will surely be asked not to say at the moment of that EUR. If the Republic of Croatia cannot access through the mechanisms of the European Stabilisation Mechanism it cannot be on the market and, or if it can be, it can be with a limited amount and with a very expensive capital amount, it can honestly be EUR 2025 for us. No, we need it now, we need EU help now, and that's a political decision. It's a purely political decision. You watch the papers, see what the 2020 budget, 2021, 2022, is totally irrelevant, totally irrelevant, how much public debt will be our deficit, these are no longer criteria at all, these are no longer the criteria to enter for this part. We need their very clear message from the Republic of Slovenia as the Slovenians do. Slovenians also entered the Eurozone after a political decision. How did the Greeks get in? The same for the political decision, it wasn't seen in this section. So, it is very clear that the European Commission's decision towards the Republic of Croatia that, now we will help you, you will have access to the mechanisms, liquidally you will be for the sake of the EUR is the worst thing that can happen to us that I don't know at 7.7-7.8 and that all the burden of the crisis is relocated to Croatian citizens who have hundreds of billions of kuna in euro loans again, so that God doesn't give us a new franc. And then we have a huge problem. So, a very clear political message is that if you help us with these certain means. It is not easy to go to the European financial market today, especially when you have such significant countries that need so many EUR, which so many Euros need. The question in the future is what will happen to the Italian banks. We know that in us, in the Croatian market is more than 50% of the active Italian banks, and we see what is happening in Italy. No one can predict if it drops 10%, 15 or 20 in Italy. No one can predict the impact on Italian banks or their impact on banks in the Republic of Croatia. So it's a serious asset, and that's why the CNB's decision to ban payments from getting Italian banks, Austrian, according to their queens, would they do it within a second. All the capital they have would be transferred to their mothers if they needed some help and that's commendable. I commend the Government and the CNB for their hasty response, but that is why they reacted because they actually did, and the European Central Bank gave it to them. However, it is important to see and see the cash flows of the EUR by the end of the year for our balance of payments. Our colleague Bulj often mentions foreign exchange signals that have also stabilized our balance of payments. Today we hear that over 50, maybe more, 60,000 Croatian citizens will simply be fired in the EU and returned to the Republic of Croatia. So, what about foreign exchange inflow? Do you know that the balance of payments was held by the export of services or tourism of over EUR 10 billion and what my colleague Bulj said repeatedly mentions the signs. That's part of it, and now we've got a ban and we don't have goods exports. We simply do not have the export of goods, we cannot get to the EUR, there is no export of services, there is no export of goods, there is no foreign currency. International reserves are already running out. And therefore, the EU's solidarity with the Republic of Croatia as a member who could not use the instruments when we were in crisis in 2008-2009. We couldn't use it. That's why we were in crisis for 6 years, which is why we were the last to get out of the crisis, because we couldn't go to the European capital market, to the world capital market, we couldn't go out on a dollar basis and raise funds to finance domestic, domestic consumption and domestic liquidity, and this is the EU test, this is an EU test from the trust of Croatian citizens to the EU. And if such a political agreement is reached that the Republic of Croatia can have a peaceful liquidity and foreign exchange inflow, all that other members have actually used, all that other members have used will also open up the trust of the Republic of Croatia towards the EUR. As long as it is not there, that there is silence, that various games are happening there that the Croatian public doesn't know if they actually accept us or don't accept us, they will actually determine the position of the Croatian public towards entering the EURo. Now we need help, now we need liquidity, now we need to reduce the pressure on the budget, now we need to stabilize the course, now we need to act. Two, after these measures, absolutely without substance at all to discuss the concept of the EUR, and I hope, warmly, that, regardless of the slow reactions of the European Commission towards Italy, bad reactions unlike America to the economy, has information been released today that the European Investment Fund is giving 8 billion euros to small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is whether Croatian companies can join the European Investment Fund. So, EUR 8 billion for 100,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. Although we are not in the EUR, we should show a political message that Croatian small and medium-sized enterprises are politically able to participate in such programmes in the European Investment Bank. So, the EU has strong levers, they just have to show that the Republic of Croatia is equal and that part of the instruments will provide us with Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197673	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Schuker will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, listening to these discussions today, a man asks himself whether we are aware of the situation we are in and whether we are a state and a people who stick to what he signed. So we have three legal proposals that are what they are and we can very hard change them because of this and because of that, we simply adapt to where they are. However, colleagues and colleagues I will continue here, in fact I will continue to debate my fellow Lalovec. Are we aware over the next period of a month and a half, two, three, how much Croatian funding is needed for all of what we have all supported in the Croatian Parliament. So, everything, all political options. Are we aware of how much money it is if this is all going to last up to 6.7 months? Are we aware that the financial opportunities of Croatia and Croatian banks are limited, that at this point we simply cannot close any possible source of income. Or are we aware of which, by what day, if this is like this, we can keep the swear course the way it is. Don't let God make the script happen, not nearly as much as it was with the Swiss to happen to the Kuna. How much would a friend of Croatian citizens grow, how much more kuna would it take for Croatian companies' debts and loans and eventually how much more kuna for the Croatian state to reprogram and to be in charge outside. That's the facts. And now colleagues and colleagues, how much money the Croatian state will need to finance all these measures and those measures proposed by some other clubs, because look at the revenue side of the state budget is devastated, because these 500 or 600 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, their employers, will be helped by the government with the payment of 4,000 kuna and in the largest part of the release of pension and health contributions were paid to the state budget in some past periods at an average of around 3,500 kuna. So when you multiply it by 600,000 you'll see how much money you'll be missing on the income side. However, the expenditure side of what should have been paid on the income side has not decreased, although as far as health care is concerned it has increased. The prime minister and resolution minister have several times stressed that the payment of pensions does not come into any question, it is something that will simply be. And now look at what they pay off their pensions is going to go down pretty much. So, you have to find an alternative to financing that. The only alternative is to be in charge or withdraw if available to you, and among other things, by adopting these 3 laws, God grant us that we of the 1.7. enter the ERM II mechanism and that we have the basis for certain funds from the European Central Bank. So that's something we just have to think about right now. We need to think that every kuna, every EURo we can get so we don't close our doors, we get to it. Because on the one hand, we're going to be in a position not to have enough resources to defend, actually the funds we've defended this course with. On the other hand, all these measures, look at your colleagues and colleagues every step you propose to give someone something or you're going to write something off to the state, because you're going to finance it. You can't say that at this point in time health care that was in so much trouble is not needed because, and the additional involvement of health care personnel and the additional engagement of material technical resources along with this all accident occurred and the earthquake in the City of Zagreb which devastated many health institutions, so these are all the means we should simply obtain. And make sure that both the government and the finance minister and the governor are working very carefully at this point and planning not to close any markets where we could get the money. Because the biggest problem will be, the greatest evil will be if the state can't pay off its obligations in time, if the state becomes an indifference generator, then you're hard on us. At some times I won't speak before, because many like to compare them, it's simply two things that can't be compared and it's hard to compare, but precisely on the trail of what happened before, we can't turn this thing into a negative right now. Because everyone here in the debates mentioned that these measures weigh 75 billion. That 75 billion is not in the state budget. One part will be obtained from the EU's social package, God grant us access and certain funds to help the economy from the European Central Bank, and all else is borrowing. Now look, the central bank has fired 3 percentage points of mandatory reserves to business banks, and in such a way, business banks have come up to about 11 billion kunas of funds, not all assets have been allocated to the state, they have left one part of the funds for the economy and for their own liquidity. So, even when we talk about these domestic banks, we simply cannot ignore them at this point as a very important factor in financing, financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. However, they should also send a clear message to these banks that they must at this time take care of both Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen who have found themselves in trouble, who simply are not working and cannot pay their loans. Now the question is, if someone doesn't work and if someone doesn't come to where will those interest be coming from that they should later pay? Now we've been coming up with what I've been talking about for a month, a month and a half from this pay phone and in an individual debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's responsibility. The responsibility of everyone in this process. And when I talk about these three laws, whether we bring them or not, nothing will change there, but it will change into the perception of those of whom we expect assistance from Croatia, that Croatia has not implemented certain obligations, if they are the prerequisite for us to enter the ERM II mechanism there 1.7, then we with the ERM II mechanism are opening up a series of sources of funds that we unfortunately cannot think about at this time because we are not in the euro zone. And in that way, if we think and if we think, then we're going to avoid empty stories and then here I'm going to lamentate like this, I'd do it like that. However, Minister of Finance, Prime Minister and Resort Ministers in the morning when they come to work know that they have to pay this much here, that they have to pay so much money there, and that there is no income in the state budget because we will only feel what this crown is after 15, 20.4., but economics has brought Croatia first of all to the budget it will be seen, but so far you have not noticed that any target group that receives funds from the budget, whether it is pensioners, whether it is Croatian health, whether it is social aid or help the economy felt that something was happening. Why? Because the government used in the first hand of this financial instrument, in the first run-in of these financial instruments it has, however, the question arises when in a month, everyone comes to this financial market in Europe, how far it will be open to Croatia, and under what conditions Croatia will be able to borrow. The question of whether we'll be able to get to the American market and whether or not we'll be able to be in charge there. So, colleagues and colleagues, and with this I will conclude the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, so I think it is primarily for us at this time to, in addition to these measures that we unanimously supported, and that is a good message to everyone, but also a message to certain financial institutions to provide a source of funding for all that has been waiting for us for a few months. And we won't wake up one morning and simply the crown of the crisis won't be, we simply have to secure the time when life is normalized so that the Croatian economy can start with good predisposition financially because if you don't have a source of finance, then you can't start this one well. And in the end, I have filed a nomotechnical amendment, and I sincerely hope that the proposer of this law will also accept it by the HDZ Club for this. Everything I've said supports these three legal proposals. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197675	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. Now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Miro Bulj, there he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197676	Thank you. Here we see now that very constructive discussions have opened up, essentially the reality of the virus's coronary not only on health problems that we have in the Republic of Croatia and all our capacities and resources that, now invested in the fight, are going to be investing in the fight against this health problem, key issues have been raised in terms of how much funds these are, amounts of funds within this short period of time. I'm talking about the 75 billion packages. But the fact is that at this point, like never before, I was a critical and Eurosceptic towards the EU because I know that the stronger one is always pushing, that we are important to them for the market, but never as now as the European institutions, their banks, their sources of funding, and we are chairing the EU at this moment, we even have a Commissioner within this EU, the European Commission, therefore we, like those who chair, expect that Croatia as a small country, as a country that has, means that it has the potential for development, and which at this point will be terrible, are we now seeing that this crown virus has told us what our situation is in agriculture, what our situation is in the economy, what problems we are in, what is the situation on the market is, that this has never been the bigger moment that this is also a fellow Lalovac said, never greater moment for EU solidarity. If the EU and its bodies are acting as they are at this point towards Italy, and even when it is.../incomprehensible/... the EU money will certainly like it much bigger, and we, I hope we will not stay on the custodial, we are now being helped and now we are being devoid of money, and we are not being tampered with by these laws that are being duped in this moment that we do not know what will happen to the EU. I would only say once more that restrictions i.e. The strokes don't smell like pay for the biggest crisis this moment, my colleague Schucker made a comparison in 2009. The crisis, 2008, '09, everything that came out of it, but that's what my colleague Lalovac said, but at this point it's very important to say that they can't handle the crisis most at this point by the cops, they need to get paid, soldiers, mostly health workers, we said today cleaners have a much lower salary in their homes of health, in hospitals, a lot less that are also doing riskyly and are fighting on the first line of defense, they're getting paid now by the triba. We can't hurt these people right now, but the tribune goes from itself, so the government is on its own, and that's to finally see that our structure isn't functional. I'll never understand why we're tribbing this number of counties. Don't realize that I hate counties, no, I come from Split-Dalmatia County which is the biggest, but the logic of the county doesn't make sense to me and to whom is that level of government even more triba. The County urgently abolished and fellow Schucker could have me, here and the secretary clear to understand, if we abolish the county, the decentralised money that goes to health care, the more it remains in this flow boiler, the stones, the decentralised healthcare funds remain in the county who knows where, the health and health care homes are in a catastrophic situation, the catastrophic mainly in rural areas and the abolition of the county we have huge amounts of money that we can invest where we need to. Croatia is not such a country as to have 20 and some counties. I know it's important that as a voting machine, as an infrastructure, but that's the kind of money they put in the county at 155 local self-government, the local self-government unit. So, first of all, we, as a people who have so much surface, as a people who have been evicted, have to mention a fellow Lalovac, is the important thing that I've always said, we will now have less payments because our people out there won't have any income because they've been fired will be coming back and some have lost their jobs. So tourism is who knows what's going to happen. We have to simply, we're a small people, not tribune so many counties, let's get rid of the county that's already the first move where we'll have some funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197677	Mrs Grozdana Peric will now have her debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197678	Here is a well-respected colleague, my colleague, and a lot of things has already been said, I would only mention with these three laws that, when the first reading started, there was no near sign of the crown of the virus, nor of such possibilities, so the Republic of Croatia, which signed the agreement with the EU itself, was something that was in a certain time a condition for all these mechanisms to be launched. So this is a second reading, so you don't have to tie it all up right now, life needs to stop, but in fact everything you've taken as a serious state, a serious government, you have to do, and in this direction, you really need to coordinate it with what you signed. I would repeat once again that all that is happening in the meantime is very much about all of us. If you only remember the 2020 budget, then you'll see that, let's say, VAT revenue was planned at the time, 55 billion kuna is slightly more than 55 billion, that about 9.3 billion incomes from profit tax, etc., and all of this is now from this perspective when we look at how well we're aware, and he's well aware of both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, which means how much less income will be achieved only by those basics, where customs are, where the contributions and everything else. Therefore, it is very important to find the exact missing part of what we can expect now for unrealized revenues, and at the same time we have a lot of problems and demands and many parties are coming up with various opportunities and demands to help at all levels. And, however, the government itself, in all these measures that are in the first round, and in the second round, has to think very carefully about how everything that has gone well in these last three years, 3.5 years to try to keep or should live and now, but it also needs to live after the crown of the epidemic or pandemic, and no one could have predicted that the problem of the earthquake would also arise which is something that we absolutely couldn't affect either. So a lot of factors that are now much harder from this perspective were, it's much harder to solve all of that now compared to the planning that you did last year when those parameters weren't there. Therefore, these 3 laws actually speak of the seriousness of Croatia which wants to fulfill all that it has negotiated in its negotiations at the end of the day. He also wants to enter the European and monetary and banking union and ultimately come, what colleagues before me have said and to those funds much easier in this solidarity union which will thus open up Croatia's opportunities for all of this to happen not as a single country, but as one of the countries, to get through much easier. Therefore, this must not be related to the weakness of Croatia, which at this time is disowning some of its rights, but rather to its strength and seriousness that it truly fulfils its obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197679	Thank you. Mr. Bull has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197680	Well, my fellow Members, at one point, you said that opposition and MPs are being thrown out by certain measures, and I think the opposition is constructive, that the opposition has accepted and not agreeing with the first package of measures that are weak. We didn't support them, we voted them, the amendments weren't accepted, and then the government took its measures that were identical to what we were proposing, so I wouldn't say that in this case the opposition was essentially the one that was throwing itself away. It's the role of all of us to propose and look for the best tools, and that's how the debate opens. However, the fact is that when you talk about the EU, about the EU's monetary policy, about our euro area entry, about our commitments under the pre-accession treaty, above all we have EU assistance now solidarity aid, not tomorrow, who knows what will be tomorrow, now and now, financial assistance. If they're solid, if they're correct let's not just close into their borders big and their own, that money spends for themselves, for their own purposes, And they have it, we need money and help now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197681	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197682	Thank you very much. So, the government has made a very good move on everything that has been a suggestion of opposition and, in fact, I think it's very quality and applied and they've done a lot, and I believe that this government has a reputation and that with everything our president's been doing so far, we will surely find ways how this solidarity is actually going to work and we won't be left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197683	Mr. Shucker, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197684	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you mentioned in one part of your debate and local self-government, so in the Law amending the State Budget Act, the state has committed to giving local self-government units on behalf of the income tax inaccessibles and income tax returns an unscathed loan so that they can bridge it. So, the state has taken over as someone who at this point has a good, so to speak credit ability, can practically be in debt at a very low interest rate to help everyone. And what we as representatives simply have to send a message that we must not close the road, pipe, knock down a bridge or anything according to any source of funding from the EU to business banks, that we can get to those funds because that is the only way we will preserve health and also preserve the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197685	Thank you, time. Answer, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197686	Thank you. A fellow Shuker must not forget that all of this is happening, so by not paying or paying the wages paid when, when the economy normally works, the incomes of local self-government and regional self-government units are reduced directly, and you need to know that from income tax are generally cities or municipalities have at least 40% income from income tax, some more, some less. So now with these measures where every man is saved, every job, but can't be compensated at as much as anyone has realized, instead of 4,000, he's achieved 7,000 or more. So, and it's very important that then and those units of local self-government work because that's actually what What each of us needs. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197687	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic will have the final word on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197688	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In view of the time we already have and your whole day's work, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate and for all those who participated, and they are not present here and also if they allow this, this time to accept on behalf of the Government and the amendment of Agent Ivan Shuker, who is of nootechnic nature in relation to Article 3. Law on CNB code P.Z. 829/3. Thank you very much, once again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197689	Thank you, thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I wish you a pleasant rest of the evening and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 9:30, forgive the audience, tomorrow morning at 9:30 at Hotel Westin will be discussing the amendments, really the amendments this time, and then there will be a vote. Goodbye. Session aborted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-06-0.u197690	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, second reading, P.Z. Number 843. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Who's in? I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, 120 for, 4 abstentions and 6 against.
