ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9652	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Before we fill out the agenda, I only have one piece of information, and I just got it from the DORH, and it's about tomorrow's report debate. So, unfortunately, the chief state attorney is in mandatory isolation, and her first deputy awaits the position of competent epidemiologist on possible self-insulation. So, the proposal we have received is to move the debate to the point where the main state attorney will be able to participate in the debate, of course it depends on 30 applicants, so if you do not give up the debate then we will be looking for a second representative of the DORH, so please conduct consultations so that I can then act in accordance with the proposal of the Proposer. Now we're going to go ahead with the agenda. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 4th session agenda with 4 new points. These are: Proposals for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Publicities against Infectious Diseases, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Final Proposal for the Law, the Proposal for a Law on the City of Zagreb, the Amendments and the Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, the Emergency Procedure and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the City of Zagreb, and the Emergency Procedure. We had a written remark once again reminded by the Green-Left Blocks Club at points 2, 3, and 4, and at point 1 was objected yesterday by a colleague of the Grmoi. So we're going to vote then on the urgency of the procedure. First, we will vote on the urgency of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 99 MPs and MPs voted, 92 for, 3 abstentions, 4 against, so this legislative proposal will be discussed by emergency procedure. Let's go to the second proposal, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 77. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 88 MPs and MPs voted, 79 is against and 9 is against, so this legislative proposal will be discussed in an emergency procedure. We now have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 76. Who's in favor of emergency procedures? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 87 MPs and MPs voted, 78 for, 9 against, so the third proposal was included in the emergency procedure. We are going to the fourth draft law amending the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 78. Who's in favor of emergency procedures? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 87 MPs and MPs voted, 78 for, 9 against, so this legislative proposal is also in emergency procedure. And I find that all the proposed points are thus included in the agenda of the 4th session by emergency procedure. I would now ask committees that are responsible, especially for the first point, since we will discuss it today after we have completed a set of laws of tax and free speech, of course, I think it is the Committee on Health, the Committee on Law, and if any other committee will discuss it, please do so during the morning. The goal is to discuss the law immediately as soon as we're done with a set of tax laws and I repeat again with my free speech, so I'm counting about half past three, three of us could start that debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9726	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Nikolic will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9727	25.11.2020 throughout Croatia was plagued by the government's decision to lockdown over the expansion of Covida-19 shut down the work of the economy's drivers, destroyed thousands and thousands of families of entrepreneurs who will welcome Christmas in grief and care for their existence. With this lamp, I symbolically show their beginning of the end. In the month's biggest revenue lockdown are closed cafes, restaurants, playgrounds, fitness centers, casinos, bookshops, until, even the government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't know for sure. But Croatia's lottery d.d. is not closed, why, it is known why because there are double criteria. Following the adoption of cosmetic measures for entrepreneurs without prior consultation with those directly concerned, the Government has taken measures to compensate for fixed costs, but only for closed activities. All affected activities with a major fall in traffic must be compensated whether they are formally closed or due to the whole situation have a major decline. What about the occasional carriers, travel agencies and all the activities associated with those closed down? What about the event industry that has dropped over 90%? They were abandoned, but not by their own guilt. To them 4,000 kuna gross amounts per worker is not nearly enough, these are measures to preserve jobs that the government only gives to workers while company costs are much higher. Where are the costs of the loan, where are the costs of the rent, the loans for the investments, vehicle lisins, municipal fees, parafiscal charges, the costs are the sea. If costs fall under the burden of the company there will be no jobs to save. The compensation measures were not taken by the caterers who are now going to have a major decline because they have no one to sell the goods standing on the warehouse or other related activities. Are we gonna let them go to waste? They are also the responsibility of a government that has not again reached a solution for all affected entrepreneurs. These measures are insufficient, short-term and do not help all entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs have appealed to temporarily reduce VAT to affected activities, this is necessary because by reducing VAT to 13%, consumption would be stimulated and business would be facilitated by all entrepreneurs in affected activities such as catering and other service activities. Almost all EU countries have done so, so Croatia can. If small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are destroyed who are the backbone of every economy who will fill our budget? Who's going to start the economy when this crisis is over? Many companies will fail, and unemployment will be counted in tens of thousands. In addition to all of the above, I conclude that the government is no match for the situation in which we found ourselves. They admitted the mistake that State Secretary Jelic also confirmed that the lockdown decision was swift and reckless. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of all entrepreneurs affected by this crown crisis to find adequate solutions to how to save, to work out a plan and strategy on how to recover the economy after the root crisis has passed because their struggle is yet to follow. And remember if they're not there won't be us either.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9802	And now we move on to taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mrs Katarina Peovic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9803	Here's the thing about what we talked about before. Therefore, the government is now announcing a new 2.1 billion kuna, which will be allocated for the crown measures, so to slow down business activity at the time of the crown and in the amount, and this is said by the Government for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna per worker during the suspension of work and for part or for all fixed costs during the suspension of work for those who had a major drop in income in December. But what is being proved wrong here? The measures so far have certainly not been shown to be effective. First, as more and more people lose their jobs even though statistics are frustrated and some new employees are being talked about, Croatia is among the 3 countries in Europe with the lowest employment rate. As on the tape, people get fired in Crossac, in the Sisak refinery, people are sent to Kras as soon as possible to retire, in Brodotrogir the situation is critical, so Brodotrogir is about to be closed, etc., so we have people who are being released as on tape, the government tells us that they are hiring a new one, it's not exactly true. In addition to having a high rate or not, the lowest employment rate in Europe has a very high percentage of premium labour contracts. So we are at the very top in Europe of these contracts up to 3 months, below us only France, we are at 6.9%, France at 4 makes me 6% mean we have really narrowed our working conditions to pre-recorded, insecure working conditions so where no one is permanently employed, and these contracts are extended from month to year from month to month, from month to month. We have one of the lowest salaries, we have a high eviction of 14% of the working-age population has been evicted, etc. In such an environment, under such conditions, these measures are certainly neither sufficient nor ultimately necessary. Because what did we have? So, the government was giving huge funds to companies and company owners, including those who were on the list of the richest people in Croatia who were published a few days ago, such as General Cermak Crodux's firm, so it was aided, therefore for the crown economy of the crisis, the crown crisis, and at the same time we're talking about a company that had huge profits last year, and the owner is therefore one person who is one of the richest persons in Croatia. We've had support for bookies chains, for wealthy law offices, and now we're going to be supporting company owners again, not employees. If it is about keeping jobs, then support should be given directly to workers' accounts. Moreover, the real reform would really be to ask the question of the occipital structure of the economy that we are merely persuming with these measures. So, if we maintain such an oscillating structure of the economy based on service activities and tourism where the rulings obviously agree that this country should be a land of waiters and maids then we will maintain this perpetuated oscillation structure because absolutely nothing is changing. So it stays the same, we have nothing, no progressive measures. On the other hand, this measure also shows what is related to tax system reforms that those who have will still have, those who do not have more will be poorer, so it shows that those who are rich accumulated wealth in the crisis is particularly not invested and not reinvested but accumulated and saved. And those who also have tax reform, and these corona measures, will still benefit from the accumulation. Those with savings will see it, according to the CNB report, that in one year the savings have increased, the savings of the richest 1% of the richest who holds 1/4 of the total savings in Croatia have increased by 11 billion kuna. These measures will only perpetuate. In doing so, the Government agrees with the blackmails of various lobbies, catering lobbies, entrepreneurship lobbys that do not lobby for workers, the workers here are placed in the same category as entrepreneurs, one form of Stockholm syndrome, so that the person who is in a subordinate position should be with the one who gets high support and benefits even solidarity, means the catering lobby that has, until recently, conditioned the headquarters What's going to happen, what's not going to happen, and now they're going to get a lot of support. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9890	Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, will stand, just to erase, will be the positions of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9891	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, is the biggest fraud in the history of the Croatian state coming up? We are listening these days to this first announced by Mr Bačić, and then later confirmed by Mr Jandrokovic that Croatia is likely to declare an exclusive economic belt for the next week. However, no one has said under what conditions, no one has said whether Italy will again have an exemption from the declaration of the Croatian economic belt. I will remind you ZERP has been declared, but has been declared to be all the countries of the world except for EU countries. In other words, in our part of ZERP, a protected ecological fishing belt must not be fished by the Filipinos, the Nigerians, or the Canadians, but must be hunted by the Slovenians and the Italians. Are we going to make the same situation, or are we going to exclude Italy and Slovenia from declaring an exclusive economic belt, and I'm afraid it's true. That we have the biggest fraud and the biggest misery in the history of the new Croatian state. For those who do not know Italy declares it exclusively for Tunisian and Libyans who hunt in the Mediterranean in the Italian part of the exclusive economic belt or ZERP, and I am not sure that they will deny our part of international waters where we have ZERP or where we intend to declare the exclusive economic belt, I am not sure. However, I'm sure, I'm pretty sure next week we'll have one disappointment here in the assembly, that we'll be disappointed because here from this place, someone will suggest again, impose a law that will be bad for our country, for our people. And it's not a small space, it's 23,870 km2, it's a huge space. For those who do not know Croatia today has a land area of 56,000 km2, that is half of our land space. There is another possibility, that this is indeed true, although I doubt it and that, indeed, Andrej Plenkovic, as one sovereign Prime Minister, will bring here a bill of law to protect ourselves because we have monetary sovereignty and we have territorial sovereignty and if that is true, we are only then poor, because for decades I and many other colleagues have been speaking from this house, speak in various other ways about the necessity of declaring an exclusive economic belt, and that is why Andrej Plenkovic ignores it. And it only accepts when a big brother, which is the EU, is when a big brother, and it's specifically Italy does it or other words that Italy didn't want to do it, would do it to me, you know, when, never, and maybe not then. Whatever we turn, we're miserable. Our very Croatian policy is poor, and here I actually expect this situation to disintegrate next week. And I am very curious whether scenario 1 will be shown when I will vote against this law because this law will exclude Italy in fact we will have the same thing or in another way the law that I will adopt is an exclusive economic belt, but, but here I must stress only then or with the permission of Italy or with the permission of the EU. The Croatian people, the Croatian state doesn't deserve this kind of power, it really doesn't deserve it. And these games and what's going on, this is under absolutely every criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9892	Thank you very much. Yeah, right, Mr. Bull's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9893	The breach of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Zekanovic in 238, understanding counterpart Zekanovic that he doubts the decision and what is to be agreed on, but MOST has just made a proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt where the Italians would not have or anyone else in the EU the possibility of using our seas, exploiting it in this way. Unfortunately, he wasn't accepted then, and I'm sorry you didn't vote back then. Here, I'm really sorry that the proposal was good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9894	Yeah, I'm really sorry, too, but Mr. Bull, not for the content, but for the form, I have to give you a heads-up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9895	Also in 238, I am glad that you mentioned, Mr Bulj I thank you for everything you do for the Croatian people and the Croatian state as I am glad, which I am also glad that Ruža Tomasic has put these topics in the Croatian Parliament and many other colleagues at the same time and no one has an exclusive on any other patriotic topic. I thank you for your involvement in fighting as a lion for our Croatian state and for our national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9896	Nice, it's time, it's time, you want to give yourself a warning or let me give it to you. All right, come on. And Mr Branko Bačić will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, strategic and foreign policy goals in democratic countries with great experience and international experience do not happen overnight, do not break across their knees. It is one process in which this goal is achieved by a wise, diplomatic struggle in which one objective of the strategic foreign policy goal is addressed by addressing it takes care of other strategic national interests, even if you want other strategic international objectives that the state plans in its development. One of such perhaps the largest following the independence of the Republic of Croatia's strategic international foreign policy objectives was Croatia's entry into the EU. In this process, we were exposed as no state until then to negotiations which other countries had not had with the highest number of chapters and with the most demanding Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights, as well as to other chapters where we had to meet certain objectives, certain standards set before us. We used to be.../incomprehensible/... as an injustice to the Croatian people, but we knew that by fulfilling them we would meet one of the most important strategic goals, which is Croatia's entry into the EU and we met it. In this process, we wanted to declare the exclusive economic zone as government and the ruling majority, the government of Ivica Racana declared a protected ecological fishing belt as far as I was never clear to me why it was not declared that in September 2003 in an exclusive economic belt but a protected ecological fishing belt, I realized that it was then resolved and it was accepted for the reason that this protected ecological fishing belt in 99% of all the content of the exclusive belt I meant in that decision. Two of the largest facilities, the components of the exclusive economic belt are in fishing, fishing and protection of the marine area and the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea. And these most important definitions are contained in the ZERP. And we accepted this by counting that the major changes that would affect the adoption of a protected ecological fishing area, which would affect EU Member States, could lead to Croatia's blockade on that strategic road. And then we were aware of it. Both in this assembly and in Croatian society and in Croatian politics was a consensus. Some who advocate today, who want to see themselves in this decision to declare an exclusive economic belt at the time did not even exist, did not or did not at least live this project of Croatia's entry into the EU and may not have that collective memory that you need to have in politics when you decide and when you discuss it, especially when you are prescribing something else. The moment Croatia entered the EU, a protected ecological fishing band that has 99% of the components of the exclusive economic belt became common EU waters. If it were then called an exclusive economic belt or just a fishing belt or only an ecological belt, it would once again become that moment on 1 July 2012, it would become common EU waters, and it would be called a repeat or exclusive economic belt or a protected ecological fishing band, implementing a common EU fisheries policy defined by the European Commission. And not only in our ZERP so far, but in a very fast and exclusive economic belt, but in every other declared ZERP in Europe. He was Portuguese, he was Greek, he was German, he was Great Britain, there were common fisheries policies. And when it comes to fishing, fishing in an exclusive economic belt or still in our ZERP Croatia must respect, Croatian fishermen must respect the rules that we propose to the Commission, which we propose to the Commission, which, if it does not violate this community, does not have to accept. So we will cross the declaration of an exclusive economic belt because in the European spirit and good neighbourly relations with Italy we have agreed, the Republic of Italy, which negotiates its other belts with other countries And it's for all praise. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And while the other parties in the assembly are saying HDZ, they're doing it. [[Thank you very much.]] That's the difference between us and the ones we hear these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9956	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first injury was sought by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9957	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bacic injured Article 238, where he said other parties were doing nothing, that they were just saying, we were making a proposal, you were saying that the exclusive economic belt and ZERP were the same, so now you're declaring it. I don't know who the good Branko Bačić is, who's true, is this one now what he's saying or this one that he's been saying up to a few days where he's been declaring us populists, that IGP doesn't have anything useful, that it's stupid. Exclusion of the economic belt It's our right to international law that we must declare, it's our huge profit. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9958	Thank you very much, second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull because it was a replica. Here you go, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9959	Well, I was also thinking of looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I don't know what happened to my colleague Bačić, something's been going on since yesterday when I saw him at a press conference, here's what he was saying a few days ago.../The speaker is playing a video from his cell phone:... For the Republic of Croatia there is no, there is no reason why the declaration of an exclusive economic belt relative to the ZERP, and that seems to be said to me by Mrs. State Secretary, nothing important would bring.../... anything important for Croatia doesn't bring, here, it's Branko Bačić only 15 days ago, so something happened to the man, I don't know if it's the crown [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was affecting his some kind of cognitive abilities. [[Intruder Radin: We understand that you are...]] And the rest, you should check it out. [[Intruder Radin: Injury of the Rules of Procedure...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9960	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the technique of the people and the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Whether anyone else wanted to, but I'm sorry, but it's going to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... All right, here you go. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, first... No, no, the first one was a colleague. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9961	I've got Mr. Shashin behind me, yes. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure degrades MPs for not understanding the problem. It's not Mr. Grmoy's problem, not to know, it's embarrassing not to want to know. That's the problem with you and that's how you do it. Protected ecological fishing belt, there to send a clear message to Croatian citizens, will not allow They release millions of billions of euros that you're talking about, as far as important components are concerned. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Bačić.]] It is the same in terms of fishing for the Adriatic and a protected ecological fishing belt and an exclusive economic belt and I have said it many times and I will tell you that when the debate is held [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bačić.]] And you learn a little bit when it comes to the exclusive economic belt. [[Intruder Radin: Understoodd, but it is a replica and you must...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9962	I'm sorry, I have to give you a heads-up. No, I'm sorry, it's, uh, yeah, you've already hurt your Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Shashin. I have to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9963	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, I am personally injured because I am there from Slavonia and Baranja and after this presentation of Mr. Bačić, I am really clear about the ZERP and the exclusive belt. I hope Mr. Bull understands after this, too, because he's still closer to the sea, and he should know what that means. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9964	Thank you very much. You know I have to give you a warning, I think, because it was a replica. I'm sorry, but you know that, but you know that after that, you will be taken from the word. Here you go. Here you go. ... No, go ahead. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, Mr. Bull. Here, that's the third. No, good. You want some? Here you go. ... How come you don't have any? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, you do. ... How come I didn't, did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] All right, let's move on. I see you know you'll get it now, don't you? Yeah, you know it yourself. [[I'll get my first warning and fine.]] Come on. [[I'll get my first warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9965	So, like this, I am pleased that after 15 years of doing so in the history of this assembly other MPs such as fellow Tadic and in the last 5 years of my colleague Bulj, who assured Mr Bačić and his HDZ colleagues to declare the IGP, will finally be declared. And I'm glad to see you've come to your senses. I'm glad about that, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9966	Thank you very much. You know you've been warned. Let's play along, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9967	Thank you very much, Vice President. And a colleague of the Grmoy was injured by an officer. 238, again, he can't behave and he tries to insult us again even though he knows well that he works for Mira Bulja and does God Petrova in Croatia there was nothing and there won't be any IGP because they will vote for him or not and all these verbal acrobatics should practice at their club in Most and let them convince themselves that they know everything about it and everyone else knows nothing and that they are responsible for all the good in this Croatia, and everyone else blames everything else bad. It's their policy, let them continue, it's up to us to settle it through a parliamentary debate and let them say whatever they want, Especially my colleague Grumoja, for what or for which nothing had ever been done in Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u9968	Thank you. Unfortunately, it's a reminder. I'd... Excuse me, who's talking now? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Next time HDZ and SDP write the Rules of Procedure, let them write it differently because I have to make warnings about such things. Let's move on. We're done taking a stand, Mr. Penava will present, of course, the position of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10026	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would prefer that I do not have to talk about this subject and that I have never had to talk about it because, in my personal opinion, it is deeply embarrassing and it raises some deep questions in front of all of us, especially the official who is acting in office in this country and the citizens have given us the trust to lead them to a better life, a better society, etc. So the word is that we live in a country where we are grateful to a dear God they are given or we have very rich resources, but for all the times a man wonders what it is worth to live in a promised country in such a rich country, when we as a state, we as a people are not able to take advantage of it and recognize it. And some of these resources are, of course, our own, our river Danube, Sava, Drava, but the public probably doesn't know that in our own country and our own laws, we have made it impossible for ourselves to exploit the richness of these rivers by thinking of gravel, sand and all the other resources that these rivers are actually in the form of sediments. And now what do you say, who do you blame? There's no Budapest, there's no Vienna, there's no Belgrade, there's no one we could look at, we're only left with our fingertips, and the only question we're left with is what we're doing, especially considering that these rivers are located and mostly most of their water streams pass through Slavonia, which is demographically, economically, however you want to be devastated. In order for us to understand what is simply a matter, we need to be aware that the extraction of sand and gravel from the water streams is an activity that has existed for centuries in these parts and we need to know one fact, that this day, today, come to Vukovar, look at the city centre towards the Danube and you will see a ship from the Republic of Serbia using the Danube corto properly and extracting that sand. The same situation will strain you on the Sava where BiH ships do it, only here we Croats are so rich and so smart that we don't need it. Not on the waterways where we share the border with other states, us neighbouring states, or where we are on both shores. As a consequence of this, companies that used to deal with the production of sand had a production price of 30 kuna per cubic bit, today your purchase price is unfortunately no longer available because no one in Croatia's sand produces more than 65 kuna. It means more than double. Of course, that price reflects on each of you when you go to buy half a cubic or cubic, when you build a house and everything else, we're actually increasing everything about sand and gravel, and we're lying on inexhaustible amounts of the same. I was in a situation in conversation with the Mayor of Davor, I was surprised by the number of 24 families involved in this activity, so it's about families where family heads are actually captains of river navigation and all people are out of work. And to make it more absurd on the Sava River where it is poured into and into which a Vrbas and one Bosnia River is poured into which all the sediment it brings out of us is actually neighbouring country. The consequences are terrible, shutting down all one economic activity, job loss, loss of operation, loss of knowledge. But like I said. Unreasonable policies, unreasonable laws that should be in the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have created that we obtain sand at twice the price of at least twice as much as it costs, while sitting at the same time on the rich sites of this sand and wondering what is happening to us Why our lives leak through our fingers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10027	Thank you very much, thank you. Yes, Mr. Penava you can, you can finish, you're still on time, but you have to write this form again. Mr. Miro Bulj will be the position of the club of representatives of independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10085	Thank you very much. Since I was a parliamentary representative, I have repeatedly repeated, but these were the conditions to speak to the Most Independent Lists at all, the announcement of the exclusive economic belt that the government had accepted in the first session, but in the end, Andrej Plenkovic said in a 21-page paper that it was unnecessary, that it was populism, that he repeated it all these years, and that I am glad that he accepted this proposal to declare the exclusive economic belt that I persistently and as a club of MOST twice in the last term proposed, and now it is as a proposal, which was thoroughly demeaning and rejected. Today I don't know which Branko Bačić, the one from today, is the one from a few days ago, but only one thing I know is that the victory of the Croatian people is the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, I will repeat it as I have said in the last 10 years and that the Croatian people are always conditioned to declare an exclusive economic belt, which we have the right, by international law, which we have the right under the '82 UN Convention. the year, which we have the right and, of course, and invited us to the European Commission in 2013 where they said we were losing us, losing billions of kuna, the Croatian state is losing billions of kuna and that we have a full application of the exclusive economic belt. It is a sovereign right at 24,000 km2 on the Adriatic Sea and it is up to us, I will be proud when it is declared and finally fall and more stories that someone is a populist if it proposes a proposal, that the same ZERP is an exclusive economic belt, it is not the same, ZERP is part, only one part of an exclusive economic belt, one component. It's the same for you to buy a car, a car without a car without a windscreen, it's part of a car, and it's not loaded. And I believe that this full application of the exclusive, once again, belt is a great victory of the Croatian people and a sovereign right to declare an exclusive economic belt because there has been enough terror over Croatian fishermen, enough exploitation of the Croatian part of the sea and this part where we have the right to declare an exclusive economic belt, where we have a sovereign right of 24,000 km2. In that letter, the Commission said that a billion kuna per year Croatia is gaining immediately. The reasons why it has been rejected, so far ZERP, because ZERP Branko Bačić, who said it is the same as the exclusive economic belt that it is just some energy and artificial islands, is not true. It's also a submarine, it's a cultural good, it's our sovereign right to protect our Adriatic, not to let our foreign fleets of Italian and others do what they want. And not only that, but it's sad and embarrassing that we had to wait for the Italians to press in their assembly when they said they were going to the announcement, when someone suggested there was a huge applause in their parliament, on a proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt. And it's only now that the Italians have said they're going to declare an exclusive economic belt, and now so are we. And who will be responsible for the damages that have been done so far? There was a colleague-in-law here, and you can check with your colleagues in the last meeting who voted against it. And once again, Croatia had the full right to declare an exclusive economic belt. When we were threatened, when the Homeland War was muddy, when it was involved, located, transferred and processed by Croatian generals, then it was a condition, if you will not be able to declare an exclusive economic belt, so it was declared ZERP, declared this, in fact it was a hybrid, an odd beak who did not protect our Croatian fisherman, or our territory. And finally, a colleague of Shimpraga spoke of self-sufficiency, I gave laws on self-sufficiency before the crisis, the crisis only revealed. Only Dalmatia 80,000 hectares of raw agricultural land must feed 20 million people, only Dalmatia, forgotten. But then they gave me all kinds of names. It was only the crown crisis that revealed that we imported EUR 3 billion of agricultural products, which is a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10130	Thank you. It is now up to Mr. Ivan Penava to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. No, not from here, from here. Is there a mistake? No, Mr. Ivan Penava [[Intruder: Let's move on Mr. Dretar should be.]] Okay. [[/Intruder: It's a mistake. Move, move, I say, yes.]] Ms. Anja Simpraga will be the position of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10131	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today I will talk about the impact of the Covid crisis on agriculture that should be our strategic branch of the economy. The occurrence of the crown and the crisis that followed was influenced at the beginning of the pandemic on breaks in supply chains in the world, which at one point led to a shortage of basic food products, which we naturally witnessed ourselves. During the spring, such a situation in Croatia has brought to light the low level of self-sufficiency to supply our market, making it clear that the need for potential threats as well as the coronary crisis should make Croatia more productive and depend less on food imports. After the spring closure, the market was almost dead. Now again we have a replay, the price of calves has dropped drastically, the lamb has no one to buy. Potato manufacturers are in the same troubles, huge surpluses are created. In Lika-Senjska County in the village Smiljan despite the top quality of the potatoes that produce which is organically grown have no place to place it, but we continue to import. The cellars are full of wine, the warehouses are full of olive oil. The question is how will these products reach their final consumers. Import goods located on store shelves are often of lower quality. On the other hand, the pandemic has led to huge surpluses on the global market both due to the decline of tourism and hospitality, and for example pigmeat has also experienced African swine fever. But I will take an example from Germany. It means stopping the exports of pigmeat from Germany to China, so market surpluses were created, and then such pork came to an area on the Croatian market in a way that further affects the problem of domestic pigmeat placement. Similarly, they say in the Croatian agricultural chamber happened and occurred in fruits, vegetables, milk and other goods. Enhancing awareness that buying domestic products is one way to strengthen the domestic economy, increase investment and create jobs is our future. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture has launched actions to promote domestic products more and thus to be more present on the shelves of trade. In the same direction, many cities, as well as local agencies, have acted to provide the OPGs with platforms or web markets for the sale of their products. The work and mistakes made in the process of conversion and privatisation have affected today's situation, but even more has affected late integration into regional and economic, European economic integration. All the advantages that we have as the Republic of Croatia are unquestionable, but for one broader consensus it is necessary to include all stakeholders, we need to change the climate in society so that we stop following trends and engage in the world market after others, but we need to develop an environment in which the opening of new market niches and moving technological borders will be our way of doing it. According to the first interim assessment of the State Statistics Office, agricultural production increased in 2020 by 4.7% compared to last year. Also, the increase in net added value and productivity of almost 10%, which gives us room for little optimism. We hope it's '21. be the year in which agriculture will experience serious changes, and we include a new programming period of the EU common agricultural policy, which is why it is necessary to start working together now to develop strategic documents that will accept all the requirements, but also the needs of our farmers, thus affecting future growth and the development of agricultural production and survival of rural areas in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10132	Thank you, thank you very much. It is now up to Mrs Dalia Oreskovic, who will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u10160	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, there is an old saying that it is never coming out of the crisis the same, worse or better, and judging by the normative activities carried out by this Croatian Parliament as well as the lack of vision and direction by the ruling us from this crisis will certainly not come out better, and the question is whether we will come out at all. And without a situation that has hit the whole world to a lesser or greater extent, Croatia has stuck on its development path before the pandemic of the coronary virus in a number of key areas that could make it possible to say that the only movement we are witnessing was the backward movement. During this short period of action, the Croatian Parliament called for further collapse of democratic and legal standards. It is viewed by the way the ruling treats the opposition using all possible and impossible ways to marginalise the role of the opposition. It is seen by the number and content of the laws that are referred to the parliamentary procedure overnight and voted forcefully over the knee. This is seen in the number and content of poorly designed and even worse written laws which do not address those issues that should be regulated by this law, and already foresees that the important issues will be resolved by the rules or by some other acts that will be passed by the Government or by some other ministry, by another body, not by the Croatian Parliament, as it should be. For example, the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. The law stipulates that the programme of reconstruction and reconstruction measures will be adopted by the government. Worse than that, the law prescribed that the Reconstruction Fund would be formed and formed by a contract. And it is the only fund in the Republic of Croatia established by a contract, and not by law, although the Constitution prescribes that state bodies prescribed by a detour, composition, work and jurisdiction are passed by law that has the weight of organic law. Another example is the Executive Law. And we have foreseen this law that certain issues that can be considered issues of procedural law will be governed by the regulation. These are issues that the President of the Republic should also be concerned about in the context of its constitutional duty to worry about the regular and coordinated action and the stability of state authorities. Can the way in which the relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities has been established in practice be considered to be a regular and coordinated action in which there is a balance and a system of mutual checking of brakes and balances, or is there a problem? A problem that, judging by the direction of every day, will become more difficult. What is happening within the Croatian Parliament, what results from the Croatian Parliament is reflected in the situation of the whole society and despite the quite large number of laws that are adopted as on tape, it is clear that they are essentially not changing anything. The situation in which we are called for essential, fundamental, reform, structural reforms. Citizens are seeking reforms, entrepreneurs are seeking reforms, the opposition is proposing reforms, and the government is silent about it. In the same way that interest and costs are accumulated to citizens when they are in debt, so will all of us as a state, as a society, as a community, break down on the head of this running away from responsibility and their stubborn, arrogant and destructive escape from the implementation of reforms that we were actually supposed to implement as a state long ago. And today we're talking about the fifth round of tax reforms. Moving tax rates up and down is not a reform, reform would be a permanent removal of certain unnecessary parafiscal burdens from the system. We discussed this when discussing membership fees or fees on tourist communities, we talked about the need to abolish mandatory membership and the costs paid for the existence of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We've all heard a clear short answer, no. It would be tax reform, removing unnecessary, but then it would also mean removing those systems that were set up just so they could unnecessarily charge. A new national development strategy is being prepared and it is full of big reform words, but nothing concrete. And there you'll hear about decentralisation and decentralisation, but in reality nothing of it. And we need a dedramatic. Dedramatisation would mean moving Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ out of power because you are the main brakers of any development and progress And thus the survival of this state and society. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19657	Apprenticed representatives and representatives, pursuant to Article 2(1)(a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposed a joint discussion on the following five points: - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 55, - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, second reading, P.Z. No. 56, - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax, second reading, P.Z. No. 57, - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, P.Z. No. 58, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 73. Any objections? Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19658	The Honorable President of HS. Yesterday we heard the announcement of the president of the HDZ Club that in this session, an exclusive economic belt will be discussed. Since this is a very important topic, I would like to hear the information is it true, is it just a rumor, did Mr. Bacic make a mistake or is he really considering discussing it at this session?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19659	You know for yourself that you have now done something that was not quite fair because I have asked about uniting these five points. But it will be at this session exclusively economical, at this point I can't say exactly when, but it's possible either next week or that week that's the last week of work, so it starts on 14.12. We'll certainly discuss that point. Therefore, since there is no objection to a united debate, we will conduct it as I have announced. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19660	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I would also say that I am glad that the point will be found on the agenda,... /The speakers speak at the same time./...... this point is already located on the agenda which the bridge of independent lists proposed not for the first time... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19661	Comrade Bull, come on, please sit down. This is not correct, it will have a free speech, there will be discussions to include it at some point whenever you want, but what you are doing now is a clean violation of the Rules of Procedure and a distraction of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19662	So clean... I dropped the populists to have that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19663	Oh, that's what you're doing right now is populism, that's exactly what's not good. ... So I repeat once again, no objections. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to make the legislative proposal P.Z. No. 73 discusses an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Finance and the State Budget. I would now ask for further information on the draft laws of the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric on behalf of the applicant. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19664	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. As announced in the debate on first reading then four laws, today the second reading or final proposal of five laws is also announced in itself, so I would use these introductory words before the replicas themselves and the debate of the key message that changes in laws and apostrophe which is potentially different from the first reading. So, we're talking about a package of five value added tax, profit tax, income tax, fiscalisation of cash traffic and financing units of local and regional (regional) self-government, I'm going to start with a value added tax. Therefore, the essential elements which I have governed above all are compliance with the EU Directives of 2017 and the two same Directives of 2019, hence the abolition of VAT exemption for small shipments imported into the EU of less than 22 euros. It is ensured that taxpayers from the EU and taxpayers from third countries operate in equal conditions. Now EU taxpayers are in an unequal position to taxpayers from third countries. In fact, taxpayers account for salaries and VAT in their Member State when selling remote goods to citizens within the EU while the goods sold at a distance are tied from third countries to small-value shipments of up to 22 euros free of VAT on imports. Another important element that is changed or proposed by this final proposal to amend the Law or propose to change is to facilitate the business of taxpayers by increasing the threshold for the application of the taxation procedure according to the fees paid, therefore paid and charged bills to 15 million kuna, is currently 7.5 million kuna. We also used the maximum threshold provided by the directive itself, equivalent to two million euros. Expansion of business, of course, since it primarily affects improving taxpayers' liquidity and a more stable cash flow since we are talking about practically 90% of taxpayers who could use such a measure. Extending the possibility of using the VAT accounting category in import to relieve taxpayers in terms of the engagement of VAT financial means in importing also one important thing that has a normal and one liquid effect on the budget itself, however, the budget can bear this, therefore this is not a loss but simply a relief for the entrepreneurs themselves. As far as first reading is concerned, what changes are made in relation to the text of the bill that passed the first reading. So, in art. Article 1 is amended as follows: 2. the subparagraph 12 has been added to comply with the EU acquis or the Council Directive of 2020 on the common system of value added tax with regard to the identification of taxpayers in Northern Ireland, and is subsequently Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, 5, 6, 9, 16, 33, 42, completed in accordance with the observations of the Legislative Committee in order to comply with the nomotechnics. Art. 21 has been amended and also in order to comply with the EU acquis and the concept of application Member States has been defined at the end of the article. 25. has been amended in a way that changes the whole of Article 2 in order to more precisely prescribe the services that are shown in the value added tax application for the specific procedure. As regards the final proposal of the Tax on Profits Act, which are key elements already mentioned in the first reading. We will repeat, of course, the reduction in the tax rate for all those who have an annual turnover or income of up to 7.5 million kuna from 12 to 10%, which is, of course, the disbursement of these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as in the case of the measures previously mentioned at VAT, we are talking about somewhere from about 90 percent, so we can round to 9 out of 10 taxpayers of profit tax is in this class and for them this is a 12 to 10% discharge. It also reduces the tax rate on dividends and profits by also, from 12 to 10, given that, of course, the tax on income tax which provides for a reduction in the tax rate for income from capital achieved on the basis of dividends in the share of profits from 12 to 10, it is necessary, of course, to equalise the tax situation of foreign shareholders and non-physical company members, to reduce the tax rate after deduction from 12 to 10, which, of course, also affects the additional competitiveness of the economy itself or to encourage investment. The tax rate on deductions from 15 to 10 is also reduced at the cost of fees for foreign performers, artists, entertainers, athletes, etc., as well as compliance with other provisions. It is proposed to determine the tax-recognized expenditure of the credit institution in the amount of the written credit rating to the citizens or entrepreneurs, if it is about the write-off of the credit rating whose value is harmonised or reduced in accordance with the specific regulations of the Croatian National Bank and if it is about the write-off of the claim from the unrelated person. Already in the first reading in discussions both by clubs and individually, you recognized what the basic intention of this measure is, therefore, to make a tax-stimulating fashion or a way to actively manage claims, i.e. debts. So, as far as this is according to credit institutions is a potentially good thing, it is more, I would say to citizens and entrepreneurs who have certain debts, who have fallen into certain difficulties, that, as we say, in one active approach, through full write-off or reduction of values, of course, makes it easier or normal, a more normal way of paying-off. As regards the price of a contract between related persons, the obligation of regular harmonisation of transfer prices prior to the submission of a profit tax, the provision stresses the obligation of taxpayers to regularly implement the harmonisation of transfer prices in order to ensure that prices and contractual relations between related persons, mainly domestic and foreign persons, are established in accordance with the principle of an impartial transaction prior to the submission of the tax application. The prevention of misunderstandings, correction of tax returns and prevention of court or arbitration proceedings is expected. One of the changes in the first reading is the extension of the scope of the rules relating to non-authentic arrangements and to cases prescribed by international contracts, thus extending the scope of the application of the rules relating to the above non-authentic arrangements and to cases prescribed by international contracts, which is in line with the OECD and G-20 recommendations in the field of international tax law. Exploitation of the opposite purpose and the objective of tax benefits of the prescribed international agreements on avoidance of double taxation is expected to be reduced. We can say one technical alignment with what appears and works globally, you have probably read or followed in the media and the past days, at a meeting of EU finance ministers we have made certain conclusions and decisions precisely on the link of this global principle, which is, of course, implemented by the EU, which is that further efforts are made to reduce tax ejaculation, or so on. aggressive tax planning. Then we come to the Law on Changes and Supplements to Income Taxes. The main element is, of course, the reduction in the rate from 24 to 20, or 36 to 30%. The reduction, also, of tax rates from 12 to 10 applied to the taxation of annual and final incomes and the flat-rate taxation of activities. All of this, of course, is directed and, among other things, it believes that it will have certain effects on increasing the available income, of course, those who pay income tax because only in this way can they be touched with this law, but at the same time, of course, we will, I'm sure, and in the course of replicas and discussions and about all others who may not be touched by this law at this moment, but we have done some measures to influence, among other things, the rise of their income available, here I am primarily referring to untaxable receipts. Then the introduction of national compensation for older people to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion. The aim is to define the tax treatment of this fee in order to strengthen the legal and material security of persons exercising the right to do so. It is therefore extended to the extent to which income tax and non-receivable income is not paid when determining the right to a personal deduction for dependent members. In addition, the increase in income tax achieved on the basis of the difference in the value of the assets and the amount of the assets obtained, the famous term which is well known and mentioned in HS is disproportionate to the size of the assets. There is currently a rate that, according to the current law, is 36%, so this highest rate, increased by 50%. So multiplied by a coefficient of 1.5 which de facto means 54. As we lower this highest rate from 36 to 30, this correction factor or coefficient increases to 1 and 100%, respectively.../incomprehensible/... we raise it. So 30 times 2, or 100 increases, de facto 60%. Income from assets based on leases or leases would be considered to have been reported by delivery of documents from public notebooks. So all those who rent different types of property, real estate, apartments, houses, etc., if they verify their contract with the tenant with the public notary, this same public notary is now sending it to the tax administration, so they don't have to go with that certified contract to the tax administration. Of course, if they contract directly, without confirmation, then they're bound to, of course, send in some way, they have to come to the tax administration of that contract, but in any case, if it goes through a public notary, they don't have to duplicate those steps. Equality of annual accounts for all taxpayers and simplification of the system. Thus, by equating the annual billing, i.e. by abolishing taxation at an annual rate of 24% of taxpayers who have received additional income on the basis of the second income to the level of the five-fold base of the personal deduction, given the proposed reduction in the rate of taxation of the annual tax, and in order to increase or increase the tax base for taxation at a rate of 24 from 210 thousand to 360 thousand, the additional simplicity and fairness of the tax system that we already have in the first reading will be achieved. Extending the possibility of payment of the receipt in kind based on the allocation or optional purchase of its own shares. At present, the law says "only if profit is achieved", and we spread it to those who are not in profit, it is particularly important for small companies that are at the very beginning and at the beginning when, among other things, they are not in this profit in some way accounting part, so that they are able to stimulate their workers, regardless of their current situation, with their activities they can either assign or optional purchase their own shares. Harmonisation of the provisions of the final draft law with the provisions of specific regulations, in particular the student and student associations. The extension then covers non-received receipts of non-performing work, so above all it refers to vaccination against infectious diseases... employer to pay the receipts, i.e. pay on its burden enables workers to be prescribed of course with the aim of preventing protection, so we said vaccination, but also certain testing, so that now something that is not an integral part of this law which is part of the sublegal act in the intelligence of the Minister of Finance, which we are always of course reporting to HS, is significantly expanded that coverage of these untaxable receipts. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And defining the tax situation of receipts that will be achieved by the "digital nomads" or the exemption from taxation. This is one of the key differences between reading and reading. Therefore, given that the new proposal of the Foreign Act introduces the concept of "digital nomads" involving foreigners doing business through telecommunications technology from the Republic of Croatia, but not employers in the areas of the Republic of Croatia, and that it is highly qualified foreigners and IT professionals, it is proposed to prescribe tax exemption for receipts which will be achieved on this basis in order to facilitate their decision on the selection of the Republic of Croatia as their place of residence and work. A while ago, you had a similar discussion with your colleagues from the IDP as part of their draft laws. We also have some changes in relation to first reading. On top of this provision, as regards "digital nomads", we have several and nomotechnical changes in accordance with the comments and the Legislative Committee, but generally in line with our own discussion in the first reading. As regards the law on fiscalisation in cash, there has therefore been no change in respect of what is provided for and presented in the first reading, but the main change in relation to the existing legislation is the regulation of the level of the cash maximum according to certain categories of taxpayers, so the discharge of taxpayers through the reduction of operating costs is proposed to give power to the Minister of Finance to prescribe the height of the tax maximum according to certain categories of taxpayers. These four laws, as we presented in our first reading, in our own net worth of whether the largest financial effect is the biggest financial effect of the change in the Income Tax Act somewhere around 2 billion kuna. It should also be added to the change in the Tax on Profits Act around 125 million kuna according to our estimates. On the other hand, the change in the system of value added tax with Directives that even a small value of up to EUR 22 will be in the VAT system will have some positive effect on the budget itself for imports from third countries. So all together when we round this up is somewhere, a little less than 2 billion kuna, a heavy package of these four laws. Since the amendments to the Tax on Income Taxation and the statistically observed loss of units of local and regional self-government, as we have announced in the first reading, we have decided to return systematically, so we will call, incurring into that system itself, or the Law on financing, as we have done with the law that entered into force 1.1.2018 when de facto the full income tax income income tax is allocated to local and regional self-government units then and the existing law it is divided by 160 going to cities and municipalities, 17 counties, 17 all units full of so-called. The Alignment Fund, which goes towards economically less developed cities and municipalities and counties according to the criteria that have been established, well-known, mostly for your local leaders, is seen tax revenues or the movable average of the past few years compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia and the remaining 6% again goes to cities, municipalities and counties, but for a specific intention defined by decentralisation functions, so the exact percentages are known how much for education, for health, for social, for fire. When we look at these changes to the Income Tax Act now and that, in order to be a loss of units of local and regional self-government, our proposal is, after public consultation, to come today and with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government where, among other things, they would change and correct these ratios and make a key change so that the complete Alignment Fund that remains would no longer be filled by units of local and regional and regional self-government than by the central state budget. When we take a commitment and in terms of how difficult it is, let's call it, the equalisation fund has been over the past years, so we're talking about an amount of about 2 billion kuna, it's basically completely neutralising this income tax effect, so we can say that the full burden of tax reform goes to the burden of the state budget itself, so it's the state budget that's going to charge the Equivalence Fund. The allocation of funds from the Balance Fund remains unchanged and continues to go towards economically weaker counties, cities and municipalities according to criteria which are established and well-known and I think just, fair and good, I would say, in practice it is confirmed. Also in the changes themselves, the ratio of the distribution of income tax is also changing, given that these 17% are no longer the obligations of local and regional self-government units in terms of charging, but rather the state budget, now we have different ratios in the distribution of these same 100 income tax units, from 60% to 74 rises share of cities and municipalities, from 17% to 20 % of the share of counties, the remaining 6% remains unchanged for the already mentioned decentralised functions according to the same key, model or percentages that are thus defined. In any case, the intention of this law is more than evident, further strengthening and sustainability of the fiscal capacities of local units, all cities, municipalities and counties. Of course, according to and existing legislation that regulates, among other things, the pay system and other criteria at local level, we will, of course, monitor the development of events and, among other things, what we like to apostrophe that sustainability of local budgets is one of the key preconditions between other and even regional development, and these are certainly parameters that we will be led to in the years to come. The intention of strengthening the fiscal capacity of local self-government and amending the law that entered into force on 1.1.2018, as well as the one that should enter into 1.1.2021, is to strengthen precisely these fiscal capacities to strengthen the possibility of the absorption of European funds and also those investments that are not only financed from European funds but also from local source revenues, and that is some direction that we continue to take. I will repeat once again the local self-government is a complete component of the general government and public debt, and of course we from the central level view both the state budget, the extra budget users and local self-government. However, certain criteria and limits and as such mechanisms to control the spending of budgetary money and fiscal responsibility must exist. We, of course, will, according to the needs of these criteria and sharpen, change, correct everything, of course, as we see implementation and this as well as some other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19665	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Now we'll move on to replicas. Just to see how many of them there are to report to you, so we have 11 replicas from the assembly, 1 video through and 2 from the neighboring halls, all together means 14 replicas. He's the first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19666	Thank you very much. Minister, five laps when you say tax reforms, however, that key is not dealt with. Most of the time, those who are hard to live for are our citizens, entrepreneurs, and they are not disbursed or taxed by banks that have 4 billion kunas per year on fees and interest, commissions and fees do not interest 4 billion kuna. When are you going to tax banks because people and our citizens expect measures and entrepreneurs moratorium on interest and loans in this covid crisis and that banks are taxing themselves. Why do you serve only banks in all these reforms? Why isn't their profit taxed? What's the reason? And as for the disproportionateness of property without the Law on the Origin of Assets, these frequent changes do not bring anything about those who have come unfairly to the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19667	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19668	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, banks are taxed or their profits are taxed as well as all taxpayers of profit tax in the Republic of Croatia. Given the size of credit institutions, they are at an 18% rate and these changes are practically about the rate or method of taxation of the same and the level of taxation does not change anything, so they are taxable just to cut back. As for the disproportionateness of property, you know yourself there have been both from your club and several parliamentary issues, we have responded to them and we will respond to this way or further to the trends of the past years in terms of the running process of the case, and also the identified elements of the disproportionate property are seen from year to year increasing this trend thus improving the work of the Tax Administration with these changes and additions is further dimming this kind of vision, way, modus behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19669	Thank you very much. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19670	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You've talked a lot about tax discharge, but the only thing that's constant in recent years is the growth of public spending. So, even in years when we have a slight economic growth or as in this year when we have a major decline, public spending is constantly growing. However, data suggest that the share of tax revenues in GDP is approximately 20%, and that is the whole time, so there is no real tax charge, at least so far. We generally welcome the reduction of tax rates, but this turns out to be more like a cosmetic change, and we actually need a new tax model that would be in the country's development service because we're just spinning around like this, and we see the main problem in public consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19671	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19672	Thank you, well-respected representative, for your replication or comment. We'll make it clear that I think that such a subject was similar in some of the past rounds of debate. Therefore, one of the intensities and objectives of tax discharge is a positive contribution to economic growth, employment, investment, consumption and the like, so all that has in some way regained a positive effect between the other and the revenue side of the budget. And when, of course, we look at and monitor the proportions of tax and general income in GDP, we can conclude that this trend is one or the other, but the fact is that with this tax cycle or this cycle of tax redistribution over 10 billion kunas, it is best to compare each of us to the person currently paying income taxes, how much tax on added value to individual categories. Where there is someone in the entrepreneurship sphere who pays taxes on profits or contributions to health insurance, etc., etc. So we're individually looking at how tax-deprived he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19673	Thank you very much. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19674	Thank you. Dear Minister. My particular question is that if the aim of this reform was among other things to achieve the justice of the system, for which reason the analytical income tax model is still applied, where we distinguish and actually favour the income from the capital of the assets in relation to the income of the work, whether independently or not, where, of course, tax rates on the income of the work are still far more than capital and property, and on the other hand, we specifically proposed to switch to a synthetic model where actual income from the capital of the assets would be treated the same as the income from the work in so far as the final, final tax, but as an annual tax and taxed at the same progressive rates. Don't you think that this system would be more just and actually contribute more to the stimulation of work, not to stimulating life than exclusively? The capital of the property? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19675	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19676	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The proposal for a total synthetic income tax came back in that first round. We have decided in some way to connect certain categories in there, under that cap or umbrella synthetic coverage while some are still after finally this taxation. There's no reason or need for any conclusion to stretch someone one way or another. You know very well that most of it is income, income tax, non-performing work, then self-employed activities, but it has, of course, that so-called. other income, and in some smaller proportions and income from capital or property. When and when, of course, additional conditions and preconditions are created and this is the topic that we can discuss, we are not even in the first reading, so I am not going to turn it off as such. However, I must also apostrophe to put the link to some of the overall functioning of the market Not just through the prism of the tax system. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19677	Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19678	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, even in the debate during the first reading, there have been some dilemmas from our colleagues here that in terms of taxation of income tax there has been a flat tax, probably authors of this flat-tax Hall and Rabushka would disagree with it, so once again, please explain what they are in the application of the tax rate, whether proportional, progressive, regressive or not God degressive in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about income tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19679	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19680	Thank you very much. In the Income Tax Act itself, here we heard a few tax rates in my own and in the opening statement, the majority of taxpayers in the class at 24, and with these proposed changes, that would be 20. One part, the smaller percentage is at a rate of 36, or tomorrow 30. However, you also heard just before and related to this one, this replica of the esteemed representative Bencic that there is a normal rate and this reduced rate within the meaning of 12 and 10 respectively. Let us not forget that pensioners and young people also have a reduced rate, so pensioners and a part of young people between the ages of 26 and 30. halfed down, so de facto 12 and 10, that one part of young people who make their incomes, and age is up to 25. They're at zero. And in the end, we still have a tax rate relating to the established disproportionate property of 54 per 60. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19681	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, more technical question about when you were talking about these bank reliefs. Will banks be obliged to deliver to the tax administration the names of the people they actually wrote it off to? In other words, that citizens to whom debt is resold today, that they can simply call it tax administration and say if my debt that is now being sold on the market, did the bank use it as, means clean as the safeguard mechanism of the state that gave it to the banks so that you can know which citizens it refers and make it much clearer to the citizens themselves if they get fired for having such information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19683	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19684	Thank you, well-respected representative, for your replica and for the general recognition of this topic, as well as for your first reading, as well as today. Surely the basic idea of intensity is clearly and publicly communicated, that this active management of how the claims may be even more important by the debts of our citizens or entrepreneurs. What we have seen and seen in existing practice is that rarely these same debtors are not informed or informed about who is ultimately the owner of their debt at the end of the day, and we also want to correct these changes among other changes. The tax administration and our entire system of communication with the taxpayers that we have made over the past few years we want to continue to deepen, mainly in the system or via the e-tax system or e-Citizens that simply citizens can at any moment have the right adequate information. We are open to all the good suggestions that you will have today during the debate because ultimately, I think the interest is more than clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19685	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19686	Dear Minister, Croatia is defined among other things as a social state. Taxes that are collected should be in the function of all citizens and the functioning of the state. I'm interested in your opinion, your observation and how you see that according to the FINA report for the past year of '19. In Croatia, companies without a single employee had a turnover of 26 billion kuna, 26 billion kuna is a complete budget of Croatian health care. These companies don't have any employees and don't pay one kuna into a pension fund and one kuna, not a single kuna in a health fund, so I'm wondering how you look at that phenomenon?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19687	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19688	Thank you, well-respected replicator and commentary. We have no reason at all to doubt the data of FINA, however they are certainly both accurate and up-to-date and that is something I would like to say that exactly the tax administration and the whole, all tax authorities in their own way and the business mode, and I must admit that very often in HS we have been apostrophetic and speaking in discussions, replicas and comments about how they relate to large taxpayers. For large taxpayers, there is a special department, especially the establishment unit within the tax administration that works with them on a daily basis. As far as small and medium-sized people are concerned, it's usually the impression that there's a kind of tighter bottom going on, as we like to say in a colloquial way, which, of course, is not true, is equal to the treatment of all horizontal ones, however, surely we can say, when we see such phenomenal shapes about which... by law, they are not allowed, disabled, you can have legal form without employees, but you can certainly count on the tax administration of their engagement or tax authorities having and amplified exactly on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to show that there aren't any [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Irregularity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19689	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19690	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Since this proposal changes tax laws lead to an increase in wages, in a way, to an increase in wages, by reducing income tax, it actually reduces the rate, thus reducing income tax. Now the total income tax is being passed on to local self-government units. The 17% that have been from the fund so far... No more income tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is now for the first time practically local self-government units then finance from other sources of the state budget. Now what I'm probably interested in, and I'm interested in the local self-government units, is these facts, that now, this compensation fund is not going directly from income tax, but from other revenues of the state budget, will it be regularly transformed by local self-government units so that they don't feel the difference that we are now practically establishing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19691	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19692	Thank you very much, esteemed repatriator. We talked about this in presenting the State Budget Act for next year, so it's a good opportunity to do the same thing now. So, it is the state budget that already has its resources planned, the budget was adopted, the Croatian Parliament adopted it a few days ago, at the positions of the Ministry of Finance the funds as such, planned, the payment dynamics would go up to 15 in the month for the current month. So our calculations are very clear, exact, there is a follow-up of all these criteria by your unit, a department that is an integral part of our state treasury that manages communication with local self-government has all the up-to-date data and we will, of course, provide the whole way of working so that local units get the funds of the balancing fund in time, I repeat again, up to 15 in the month for the current month. So, not retroactively for the previous one, but we were just trying to ensure that this liquidity was secured from the 1st month, so 15.1. Payed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19693	My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19694	Here is the Honorable Minister Maric, today you have listed everything to be done, but you have forgotten what is crucial, and that would be the most important thing for the wider circle of Croatian citizens, which is an increase in the untaxable part of income tax. How.../incomprehensible/... on the amount of 5 thousand kuna, the largest circle of Croatian citizens would feel an increase through their salaries, it would be a measure that would increase the standard of Croatian citizens, it would also be the strongest pro-demographic measure, so that people can really live on their salary. Unfortunately, you have not done that part, and also, I came across one of your interviews where you mentioned that if pensioners count in Croatia, that 2/3 people don't pay income taxes, it doesn't say that in Croatia taxes are low, it just says unfortunately that our pensions are low.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19695	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19696	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Several months ago, when it was among other things an election campaign for the last parliamentary elections, the HDZ presented the model for reducing tax rates in its programme. I know that some others had proposals for a basic personal deduction, and ultimately the result of the election is that and we know for ourselves that what was promised, that, among other things, had become a government programme, and that is now on the table, that is, in the benches. However, regardless of this argument, I will only remind you that in the context of the upcoming and previous, pardon, not the upcoming, but the previous rounds of tax reform, the first one is set on raising a basic personal deduction. Let me remind you that before the first round of tax reform, the basic personal deduction was 2600 kuna, and today it is 4000 kuna. So exactly the emphasis in those first circles would be on raising a basic personal deduction. This number you said, it's true, it's a fact, it's a million and 800, up to a million and 900 million out of 2 million 800 at this point is not in the system. the income tax or does not pay it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19697	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19698	Dear Minister. In Varazdin County, in the processing industry, 53% of all employees were employed. The average net salary there is 4 675 kuna, which is 14.5% lower than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. If he wants to keep the workforce in northern Croatia, we are not sure these measures will be enough. What we are proposing as reformists is tax discharge and an increase in net income, an increase in personal deduction from 4 to 5 thousand kuna, which directly affects the increase in net income to those with low salaries. Now you have responded to the election results, but since the election results are such that in most reformists, we support this set of laws, but we ask you to also think about this, or give a concrete answer when it will start and with this tax discharge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19699	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19700	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, anyway, on both the previous and your replica, so I'm just repeating that what was said in the election campaign itself and the government program, we're doing it. On the other hand, we do not ignore the fact that a certain part of our citizens, fellow citizens, employees, given the amount of their income, as we like to say, although many have suggested that I do not use this term, is not in income tax scissors, so it does not pay income tax, you know that in some previous circles we have just addressed them with the expansion of the scope of so-called. non-taxable receipts. Untaxable receipts until our changes in 2018 were 2500 kuna maximum annually. The mahogany was for Christmas payouts, possibly a resurrection or a regression. They are currently so that you can pay more than 1000 kuna per month to your employee and are extended, for food, for accommodation, for rewards, for additional health care, for kindergartens, and here, for new vaccines as well, i.e. tests. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19701	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19702	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, income tax as one important income of the local self-government unit and regional self-government with these changes, normally, tax rates change and the incomes of local self-government units are reduced. However, the amendments to the law on financing are precisely increasing the rates of share of cities, municipalities, or counties in income tax, thus increasing the original incomes of these units, which further speaks of taking account of exactly their original revenues, their budget structure being as good as possible for applications for European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19703	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19704	Thank you well-respected MPs on the replica, i.e. on the commentary. You have recognized everything well, and I have said it in some way in the opening words, therefore, and the aim is not to ignore these, such changes, not to turn your back, Colloquially speaking, to local self-government, on the contrary, to strengthen their fiscal capacities as a prerequisite for even regional development, or better and greater absorption, both the EU fund, or the taking of certain infrastructure investment procedures which are within the authority of local self-government itself and, of course, on that trail, we will still not only consider but also do and do. In any case, what you've well apostrophefed, so in each of our current circles, whenever it comes to income tax, in one way or another, we've had different modes, one time there have been direct compensations in terms of compensation for the loss of those tax revenues to local self-government, this time, as has been the case with previous amendments to the law, a more systematic approach we're dealing with this issue, although of course I have to apostrophe, the only measure we haven't compensated was a measure for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19705	Comrade Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19706	Thank you very much. Here I must say that I am thinking the same thing, or similar as my colleague Peric, and I am glad that you have recognised the importance of the sustainability of the local budget, which we are also discussing, in parallel with these amendments to the tax laws, about this law on the financing of units. The cities expect according to the proposed law and decision on the share of fiscal balance funds within 15 days and you said that the proposed distribution of income tax is due to its kind of neutralisation. I wonder if there are any projections whether the revenues of cities, or municipalities, will they remain at the same level and can they even be increased or reduced?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19707	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19708	Thank you, well-respected MPs. You know that, as a rule, when we go with projections, either budgetally or this fiscally related to individual segments, we can freely say that we are generally more conservative in some of our projections and we better have somehow, let's call it a positive surprise than negative. So, surely as far as our estimates are concerned, they are, based on existing data, this year is very specific, there is still a lot of uncertainty at the level of macroeconomic, mainly due to the epidemic and pandemic, however, at the same time of course, and with recovery and employment growth, wage growth, we can, of course, expect stronger effects than we are currently predicting. I'm gonna pull the parallel with those previous changes. Remember yourself, and then we talked about certain fiscal effects that ultimately proved to be more significant than that. I'll just remind you, so the total increase was 3.5 billion kuna more income tax in 2 years, in 2018 and 2019 for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19709	We're about to get word from our co-workers, Mrak-Taritash, on video. Here you go. Hello. We can't hear you. I don't think you've turned on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19710	I hope I hear from you now. Nice greeting to you, too, I have one principle question for Minister Maric. [[I'll talk to you later, say hello again.]] It is related to value added tax, so-called VAT. We have some experience that certain EU countries have reduced VAT to hygienic supplies such as hygienic cartridges and tampons, not to say that Scotland recently introduced them as free. In a former assembly of parliaments, therefore in this previous one, GLAS went with a proposal to do so in Croatia. That proposal was then rejected. I wonder if you are even thinking about regulating certain, or otherwise related to some, others, to other VAT products and whether there is a possibility that Croatia can make this one step and reduce VAT to hygienic needs, or perhaps even eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19711	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19712	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, and welcome to you. So, you've been on the subject a while ago, and we've talked about it and discussed it. At one point there was an interpretation that proved to be no longer valid as such, which is that it cannot be hacked into that segment in terms of reduced value added tax rates, according to the experiences of some countries, this is clearly no longer the case, and Croatia as such will also consider these specific changes that are currently on the table, this is not envisaged. I also did some interviews from different types of association and they were, they were representatives of me, and we talked about it, and we're going to consider some of the next circles whether or not we should go further. I just have to brief the apostrophe, I don't think it's possible to completely eliminate, but as far as the lower rate is concerned, it's certainly something we can talk about and think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19713	It will now be replicated by a colleague and colleagues who were in other rooms during the minister's presentation. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19714	Thank you. Dear Ministers, so on several occasions we discussed it here and during these previous rounds of tax reform, you mentioned it in your replica of my colleague Bulju about the disproportionate property, so we will definitely give one amendment that will go towards increasing the rate to an disproportionate property, and what I must express as some regret, it is that in previous circles of tax reform you have reduced the time in which disproportionateness can be explored. Now we can, here our citizens don't know it, explore the disproportionateness of property just for the last six years, and every year we lose a year that we can explore. Maybe now, as you say, we have multiple cases that are being investigated, but imagine how long we've missed. So I said last time I made a joke, we dropped out of those scissors, so we can see who did during that period he used it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19715	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19716	Thank you, well-respected representative on yours, and today, and I would like to say repeated replicas on this subject and I can accept a good part of it and agree. I think you recognize yourself that as far as increasing the rates for the established disproportionateness of assets and receipts and in previous circles, and so in this one is more than clear how and how we view it, let's call it the phenomenal form. As for this deadline you're talking about, it's a time period that's actually a reasonable time to conduct a certain procedure. However, we must once again make a distinction and separate what is the tax legal part from the criminal part. So, if we're talking about criminal acts, there's no time limit, there's no statute of limitations, and there's no statute of limitations, and there's no rate of going out of the way. Of course, if something has been found to be criminal, then the total of such types of assets as such is taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19717	And fellow Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19718	Good afternoon. I have a question about your emphasis that tax measures aim at a fairer tax system. However, there can be no fairness to tax reforms that reprivive those with the highest salaries of more than 30,000 kuna, so I will refer amendments that go after progressive taxation, which means that taxes are reduced for those with salaries of less than 15,000 kuna, namely 90% in Croatia. 90% of people have fewer salaries than 15,000 kuna gross where they rise, they should raise an untaxable share to 5,000, and raise taxes exactly the opposite of what you do to over 30,000 kuna salaries with 80% tax bases. Not only would that be fairer, but it also makes it more cost-effective economically, if we consider that those who have less salaries spend all their wages, and those who have higher salaries accumulate, and this shows the CNB report that we have received, and in which we see that savings in the hands... the richest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19719	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19720	Thank you, well-respected representative, for both the replica and the arguments that you have made in previous discussions. I think we can partly agree that tax policy is absolutely and terribly important, it has a normal role to play. Whether it is possible to achieve the maximum fairness of the tax system that is more, I would say not to say a philosophical part of the question, and therefore more if we have certain different views on the same tax system. However, in any case what I said and last time it is good that our key theme all these years is tax evasion and tax reduction and on this fiscal capacity that we created that it is more evenly arranged between taxpayers and citizens and that everyone feels it in one way or another more or less. But in any case, let's not ignore the fact that we can't just look at how much and how much it gets with tax changes, but also how much it contributes to the same tax laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19721	Thank you very much. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Now I'm going to ask the committee's rapporteurs to take their word if they want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. 11 clubs reported, so that's about 110 minutes, so I'd suggest that we take a ten-minute break to get a little wind up, then we'll continue the individual debates, so far I think the same dozen are reported. We'll have a free speech in one hour, if they're going to stay on it then we could go to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Here you are, Green-Left Block Representatives Club and esteemed colleague Bakic and then a colleague of Bencic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19722	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I will, in my part of the exposure that I will share with my colleague Bencic, look mainly at changes in income tax. The government remained with its proposal, which is consistent and consistent, of course, but equally consistent and consistent, and we will remain and remain with our views, our criticisms and ultimately our counterproposals. Since there are no important new moments not to be prolonged, let's get right to the point, so once again the basic thing is that the Government proposes these changes to reduce income tax and the corresponding cut by exactly 1/6, mathematically precise, by exactly 1/6. In fact, everything is fine, but we see in this two problems, the first one has already mentioned Minister Maric in his presentation, so the first one is that we are reducing income from taxes by about two billion kuna and as Minister Maric said in his presentation, this reduced income from taxes will be taken over as a burden on the state budget. More importantly, however, what is more important to us is the fact that this proposal actually deepens inequalities and actually strengthens them even more because this proposal means that the tax discharge of citizens due to income tax cuts is de facto linear. The point is that we have had until now, and now we have the fact that all those whose gross monthly incomes are between 5,000 kuna and $42,500 kuna, all these citizens pay income tax at one rate and the same rate. Let us see that it is more than 99% of citizens who are even taxpayers of income tax. The big question is whether we needed this right now in this crisis, whose duration and depth we still can't see. But if, in the budget, we were able to find a space of two billion kuna to cut income tax, we are convinced that this space should be used much more solidarity and much more socially sensitive. What is achieved by this proposal, however, is in reality an increase of several tens of kunas for those with the lowest salaries that pay income tax at all and at the same time an increase of 1,000 or perhaps 2,000 kuna for those with high salaries such as. Ours. We don't need that, and that's why we won't be able to raise our hand for this kind of income tax change. Instead, we have advocated and advocated progressive taxation, we will propose to amend the introduction of four rates of 15, 20, 30 and 40% with the corresponding thresholds of 4,000, 8,000, 12,000 and 20,000 at monthly level. The proposal is balanced because it raises much more than the government's proposal, raises the salaries of the low ones, especially the lowest ones. This proposal leaves our salaries approximately the same, and this proposal somewhat lowers those particularly high wages. At the same time, the proposal is balanced and is accountable according to the budget because, according to our calculations, this proposal leads to approximately the same loss of tax revenue from just over two billion kunas. All together, therefore, we will not be able to support this government's proposal to amend the income tax rate as it is submitted instead, or we already have an amendment better put forward a set of amendments that we will propose to introduce a more progressive income tax system, we will propose through the amendment concept of progressive income tax as we advocate and as we have ultimately promised in our election programme. And at the end of your presentation, let me briefly refer to the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, of course, and the proposed amendments were implicated by this set of amendments to the tax laws, as Minister Maric explained very carefully and nicely. We do, however, have one small correction in these units of local and regional self-government in income tax, so as Minister Maric said instead of the former shares of 60-17-6-17 so 60% for cities and municipalities, 17% for counties, 6% for decentralised functions and 17% for equalisation, now this government bill proposes 74% for cities and municipalities, and 20% for counties. We think it's more appropriate, more precise, more regular 75 for cities and municipalities, 19 for the county. More about the reasons and the importance of this on about a tiny one-percent point more about it I will say in my individual presentation, and now I will leave the word to my colleague Bencic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19723	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19724	Thank you. Mr. President, the Honorable Minister. So this proposal for progressive four-foot taxation actually cannot be looked beyond the context of our entire proposal, one of which is an important part of the proposal for synthetic income taxation. What does that mean? This means that income regardless of its source whether it comes from working on its own, not on its own or coming from capital or from assets is taxed on an annual basis, so it is collected on an annual basis and is taxed on one model of progressive taxation. What does that mean? That means we don't actually favour income from its source. What else does that mean? This means that we stimulate other than justice, to stimulate a country where it is worth working in and in which work is not more expensive than the rent economy and production is not more expensive than the rent economy or life than capital. Why? What we now have and what we are actually paying with this whole system that we are proposing is just further perpetuating the situation in which the most relatively tax and contribution in this country is paid by people who live off their work, so either on their own or on their own, so that they work for the employer. I'll give you a plastic example. Imagine a teacher, nurse anyone who has 6.5 thousand kuna net salary, at the annual level these people pay about 49,200 so nearly 50,000 kuna taxes and contributions, so on their net salary of 6.5. But let's imagine now one company director or company owner who pays a minimum director's salary for the next year, which will be about 5,900 and something kuna gross one, he will pay 27,600 taxes and contributions a year, but will pay most of it as a profit at the end of the year or as a dividend that what he will pay another 10% and what he will eventually have is that he will pay a total of less taxes and contributions from this teacher or nurse, and will make a minimum of three times as much after this calculation, so not twice as much, three times as. And is that a fair system? How can we say that this proposal promotes justice when we still have a situation where people with far greater income than those who live from work pay and contribute far less just because their income comes from capital and property and not from work? So what do we want to stimulate? Are we going to stimulate the work in this country or the production or are we going to stimulate renting? Why do we have tens of thousands of these companies? That's why. Because it's not worth a job at the firm, it's not worth a job, it's worth a job, it's worth a shell, it's worth it, it's worth it, it's worth it, it's worth it, it's worth it, it's worth it, it's an empty company, it's got money, it's got a profit to pay for, because it's the least you got to do. Tax rate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's how it's worth living. in Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And it's a fair system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's not a fair system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19725	Thank you, colleague Bencic. You can become President of the Republic after such a business, so I'm not sure it's unfair. ... It is. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The citizens have decided. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. A fellow Troscott on behalf of the Bridge of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19726	No, no, no. Dear president of HS, respected MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. In this opening part, as Club Mosta, we would like to put this whole story again, these laws that we are discussing today, in a political and economic context, and we will continue through individual discussions to discuss in fact some of the effects these taxes will have on our society, i.e. on the general life of Croatian citizens. Tax reforms therefore directly affect the budget of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. on the income side, and rather on the political context of the whole story, so, if we respect the principle of solidarity, I think that the opposition to the budget has been very solid because we have all put together over 300 proposals, 300 amendments, so that with our proposals we can participate as much in the budget as possible, and that together with co-responsibility, we will bear the burden of the Croatian people for reasons why the budget has a significant impact on the co-existence of our citizens. However, what is the fact that the Government accepted, if I am not mistaken, only 3 proposals, which actually sent a political message to everyone to take absolute responsibility for the budget itself, i.e. the consequences of the Croatian budget on the lives of Croatian citizens. Economic context, I was surprised by the fact, I went to take a look at Eurostat, so in Q3, i.e. in the 3rd quarter of 2020, we were the last country since GDP fell, but interestingly, that we had the best tourist results compared to competition. Now, let's go back to having an impact on the lives of our citizens. How do the Croatian people live? We announced here that this is now about the 5th tax reform, but if we really look at our citizens' lives, did these reforms really lead to a better life? Here, I was driving today from the west part of Zagreb to work, and I saw that our citizens, let's say, were digging through the trash. No one's saying that. And yet it's our reality. They're hungry. I was in an import lobby store the other day, where the lady asked me to bring her bags out and with tearsy eyes telling me, she says, young man, I had a mask so she didn't recognize me, she says to the young man, I'd like to tell you that she's on my debt card, she's sitting down with me, so now that something's sitting down, I'd better spend it now than waiting and keeping it on my card. It's a reality. Now, as far as income tax itself is concerned, praise is worth the fact that we're going to cut income tax. Still, you should have the courage to make such a move. However, this reduction in income tax will create a certain budget gap, and on the other hand, it is necessary to look at and compare the data that the Government has spent 30% more on the previous one, which means that an additional or additional budget gap is created which will somehow need to be compensated. Now, that's not the problem. The problem is that in this analysis, at least to our parliamentary representatives, and then to Croatian citizens, we did not give the cost of benefit analysis. So somehow that budget hole will have to be covered, and the only way we're going to be able to cover it is by re-deposit. Now, whether it's economic opportunities, therefore, to be in debt so cover that hole or on the other hand, leave a tax, it's now a big question, but we don't have that information, so we can't even be discreet about such a decision, whether it's more economical than borrowing or tax cuts. 4th, therefore, we are also witnessing the ultimate tsunami. We have to mention him. So it is very clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has favored 300 public records families at the expense of 300 thousand completed citizens. And what are the consequences of economics? So if you perform a natural person, it reduces the possibility that a person with his or her income participates in economic activities, i.e. that he spends more, or even longer you have made it impossible to run with his microplier Croatian economic activity, i.e. the Croatian economy. Now, what's the problem again? And yet another disproportionate. If Croatian citizens, therefore, do not pay their debts, it is also true for entrepreneurs, on what basis, whether the word is an account, whether it is a VAT, whether it is a communal fee, which unfortunately is 10 times bigger in our citizens, therefore, the performance is 10 times the debt itself, so it happens that these persons, or they are completed, are blocked, or physically or sorry, legal persons are on the wall of the shame of a FINA, where it is shown, which are companies that have not settled their debts. And that's correct, however, on the other hand, what about the state? I've been going over the budget documents, and in the argument document nobody mentioned, for example, that one Ministry of Internal Affairs 55 million kuna is due, it's a budgetary user. The Ministry of Science and Education 70 million kuna, and the Ministry of Health for already discussed reasons, is responsible for 3 billion kuna. At the end of the day, Croatian citizens again take part in these costs through these tight interest rates. The last point I would like, or last perhaps, to touch, clean when we are already discussing the contexts that we will later touch through laws that are not formally legal, they are good, there are good items that should be highlighted and there should be support, for example, for some articles on income tax, but I did say there is a certain context where it should be decided whether this is best for the interest of the Croatian people in terms of the costs of the debt or reduced tax. However, when we talk more about tax reforms and the principle of justice, I would like to point out another item here, which is how it is possible that our Croatian cafes, restaurants, gyms, fairs, salons are closed, and the import lobby large chains in which I bought the other day are still open. And the question arises why such conjecture? And yet we are now putting this into context, for example, some young entrepreneurs are some day precisely because of the despair in which they are being shut down by economic activities through which they could then pay taxes, doing defilements such as sacral objects, where they are further working on segregating or uniting Croatian people with the wrong economic policies. So the question is, why is the import lobby protected? Why are these shops open, and small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, little coaches closed and can't work? So these are all sorts of things that we need to put in context when we are discussing these tax reforms for the reason that everything that we bring here and everything that we do here has an impact on the life of our citizens. And the question arises why so many governments have a negative perspective towards our entrepreneurs and natural persons on the one hand will yell through the performances, on the other hand entrepreneurs will be put out and small micro entrepreneurs will be put out of their businesses, and on the other hand we will benefit from the other. Here's so much for the opening debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19727	Thank you, too. It is now up to the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19728	Your Honor, Vice President. I can't be welcomed by the President of the Parliament, always by you. We're tandem obvious. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues I beg your pardon? [[I didn't hear you, but maybe it's better.]] All five, all five. [[I didn't hear you, but maybe it's better.]] So, we're talking about a whole set of VAT laws, amendments and additions to the Law on profit tax, income tax, etc. And now what's the key question here is that I'm asking you respected ministers, do everyone in Croatia pay VAT or tax? And I'll talk right now, no, no. And now I'd like to hear from you an explanation for the pay phone, and I'd be happy to listen to you, and if you don't come, I'll come here and ask you the same thing. That's what's very interesting. Here's what I'm going to say are two examples that are very, very famous. I believe we all use social networks, some more, some less, right? And these social networks earn huge, huge money in Croatia. He's got a so-called. ... e.g. which would tell me advertising and of these ads Croatia has nothing. I can now list all social networks in a row from TickTok, Twitter, Investigations, Facebook, YouTube, so they all earn hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas and billions of kunas coming out of Croatia, and Croatia has nothing. Minister, are you familiar with this fact? If these companies in Croatia pay any taxes, do we have any of them? No, I don't think so. Well, my people, let's tax it. Is that what a normal sovereign state would say, okay, people you make from our people, from our economy, and you don't pay taxes. And on the other hand, we're going to give the little man who didn't pay the bill, who didn't pay the loan war, and we're going to sit him down for the neck. Those who draw billions of kunas can make money, and those who don't pay the TV fee, we'll kill him, literally kill him. I have another example, a very nice example too, here's an explanation I really don't understand. Maybe here's someone to ask me later or explain to someone, we have a company called Booking.com., Booking dot com, RBB, Novasol that are all companies have seats outside and that bring us tourists. I'm a private tenant too, I have one little apartment, three stars, and I'm having a hard time with it because I don't have time, but I do, so I know. So that Booking makes money from me, for example. A thousand euros a year and he transfers the tax obligation to me. I have to pay the VAT. And you know what he pays the Croatian state? Nothing. And do you know how much he earns in the Croatian State Minister? Hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, billions of euros. I think it's worth listening to. So I pointed out two particular problems, I didn't go into abstraction. The problem of these providers of those who bring us to Croatia, I named them what they are called, who work without paying a fine tax and a whole series of those internet service providers who do not again pay a fine tax. Someone explain to me why someone can work in Croatia without paying taxes? Here's the minister I'm asking you to explain to me, I'm not an economist, and maybe I was wrong, but the thing is simple. And then if I'm right, why are we going to sit behind the neck of a small man, kill him for 100 kuna, and whoever legally makes hundreds of millions of euros from Croatia won't ask him to pay a single fine tax. If you don't answer me, I'll suspect that you or someone from the government, maybe the Prime Minister himself has a deal, maybe the Prime Minister himself has some sort of deal with a team from, which I've listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19729	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic. Now Mr Boris Lalovac will speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go. Mr. Zekanovic? No, it's not that one, it's not, it can't be that one, it's got to be someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19730	The Honorable President of HS, Vice President, excuse me, Your Honor. I ask you once again to answer this question. So this really is the key information Croatian citizens need to know So I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club in [[Stanka, is that it?]] For 10 minutes, Vice-President of HS, and you respected ministers, once again from this place, I ask you to answer this key question, how can some global large companies work in Croatia, earn billions of kuna, and not pay no taxes? [[- Okay. - Okay.]] And a little bit would, you know, make me a comparison, and then why are we, uh, going in a different archaic way to those who don't pay the tv fee, and for those who make billions of kuna, we let them do it without paying anything to the Croatian state? Here's the break, after the break, I'll go back to the assembly and hear you answer me or not. But here, I think this is key information, this is not an easy question, I know. Other EU countries have this problem, but I am interested in my country of Croatia. Why don't we of these billions of kunas going abroad have one lip? Here, that's one simple question and I hope to get one explicit and clear answer. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19731	Up to 11 and 10 No, no, no, no. [[Intruder: We can even take a break if the minister will answer me, if he won't answer...]] No, no, let me decide. [[Then let's have a break.]] By 11 and 10 breaks, and I'd like to ask the service to clear this one up a little bit, comrade. Thank you. It's 11:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.10 HOURS]] It's been five minutes and we close the windows and Mr. Lalovec will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, before us today is a second reading of a package of tax laws which, frankly, are groundless to discuss since the budget has been passed, is it not? The budget is the only and most important final document, all of the acts brought behind the budget, and in fact these tax changes are an integral part of the budget, we can present our observations today, however, it is final with this final document and all of the possible changes to these tax laws. So I'm just going to talk about something very briefly, so we don't repeat ourselves. He recently came out, recently, as we're actually standing with a third quarter of economic growth, or a 10% drop. I understand from one point the government is trying to boost consumption next year and that's legitimate and that's, I said, commendable, however, on the other hand and quite risky because what's certain is that these 2 billion what the minister said you won't have in the budget, so it's going to be distributed to the citizens, and on the other hand, will you have a larger VAT, will you have compensation for those 2 billion kunas, that's questionable, right? That's because we don't know what economic activity will be. Second quarter, so summer showed a loss of about 15 billion kuna, 13, 12, 13 billion kuna in GDP, with that first quarter of 15 billion, that's 27 billion, right? We lost 27 billion kuna in added value, in 2 months, in 2 quarters, that's one health budget. It's very difficult to make up for regardless of any certain tax changes. How important it is to maintain the economy, how important it is to keep the economy alive because today we are talking about some kind of pump, freeing the country 2 billion, we lost 27 billion in 2 quarters, and it will not be easy to compensate and it will not be easy to reverse the trend. December is the month where it actually is somewhere along with August,... month of consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The moon of Adventa where citizens, both by and by the fiscalized accounts, actually show the highest level of consumption and when they look at the amount of fiscalized accounts, he was even somewhere and came back to a level, at 10 and 11. I mean, I'm talking about retail. But, uh, these measures that are today and that the government had to simply bring, simply so that it would suppress the epidemic, show how thin this line is between success and failure, a very thin border, and that we know that all those measures that we're going to take, that we're going to have a 100% impact and get a strong impact, we'd all say that it's very clear, that today binary, if we bring it, it's going to happen, but these measures themselves have shown, especially there before Christmas Eve that it's the biggest consumption and that the month is almost where around 15 billion kuna Croatian citizens are spent out of certain and because of the joy, but certain and habits from the past. And because of that, after that month, consumption comes January, which is usually very low in consumption, and as we see today, it's actually consumption that's not anything but psychology. It's citizen psychology. What is the perception of Croatian citizens, that they will be in January, what is the perception of Croatian citizens that they will be in February and in the second and first quarter of the following year, and therefore this tax change that the government is proposing and which is trying to pump 2 billion kuna into consumption because let us not forget that of those 400 billion kunas which, what is our GDP and believe me, we will hardly reach it in 2023, those 400 billion. It's kind of easy to remember, 400 billion that we created added values in 2019, this year we're going to fall to 360 billion, and that out of 400 billion, 60% of that GDP makes consumption, makes perception of citizens, makes the belief that in a month it's going to be better, that in two months it's actually going to be better, that actually, let's say, it's going to be hard to fire those brakes and these tax changes. We have said several times why our proposal was, and so I say, we differ in models, our suggestion was that all citizens who have 5 thousand kunas, who have 6 thousand kunas, doctors, especially our educational staff in schools, be paid up to 500 kuna, as if they were raised to us by representatives, to be equal to the representatives of 300, 400 kuna, but also to citizens who have 5000 kuna to be paid 500 kuna. Why are we saying that? Because actually that part of the money is the middle layer spent on consumption. He'll spend that amount. Imagine, all those who get this tax change by 1000 kuna, let's be honest, so we're going to put 1,000 kunas on savings, we're going to put 1000 kunas on savings. I don't know if you've seen the 3 data. I mean, it's a paradox in the economy. Since the 3rd month. This year, six billion kunas have increased our savings in banks. Now the question is, how is that possible, if we shut down the economy, and if we actually had a six billion kuna savings in the banks, you'd say you're a rich nation, so you guys have a great, super-good job, right? So look at that paradox, so what are the citizens doing at that point? They're simply closing everything down because of the fear of what's going to happen next month, they're closing up, they're spending on some of the most basic needs and savings. And it's this kind of paradox and economy because the economy is actually the psychology and perception of citizens that will be in Croatia next year. And that's why I said that next year is actually the most challenging year, 2021 is the most challenging year for the government if it must ensure this economic growth of 5%, and we don't know how many times it will have to close down the economy, we don't know if this vaccine will come in every day that the government is going to be playing along a very thin border and it's very difficult to make decisions. Open up a little bit, close up a little bit again, close up a little bit again so that the economy can, or perception of the citizens, for how long the citizens will get that one to go towards some sort of solution, will certainly be seen in GDP. Is as you yourself have seen in the budget for the next year that earns the most work, VAT revenues are growing. 7 billion kunas or 15% of the growth of VAT in the budget that we adopted here. What else does that mean? 15% of VAT revenues are rising. How many economies are growing? 5%, three times faster, the government believes that VAT growth will grow rather than the growth of the national economy, which means that there are high expectations for recovery of economic activity in this context. What is now a fact given the psychology of Croatian citizens that we are actually very, very, very slippery terrain. What's good right now is what's really showing up in the economy is that the building didn't stop and that's good. The share of construction in GDP is very large. We see that this is reflected, unfortunately there has not yet been a fall in real estate prices, but the building is working. And you today see a number of construction workers working and that's good for the Croatian economy, because it has a very large share and therefore our GDP has not fallen more than 10%. However, this is very important, so all the time we say again that this part of the building must continue to work both in February and in other months that there must be a shift in the overall process of recovery of consumption, but that this will be the most challenging period since government governance will have to go monthly. Unfortunately, we can't take long-term measures anymore, this is one long-term measure than we're going to have to bring in the month, I was even talking quarterly, it looks like they're going to have to take monthly certain measures. And please, what I said to the minister when you gave the banks that opportunity to write off, let the citizens know that I can call the IRS and tell them if my debts are what they call me now, whether the bank used it as a relief. Well, you're actually going to benefit the state too, it's going to be useful for you citizens, as the minister said communication, very good communication through the e-System Taxe that you have e-Citizens in one way to get on the side of the state to get a certain control mechanism, but I think it's also gonna be psychologically important for the citizens that I can check that these debts and this part of what we're going to adopt here today is to benefit them in order that they can and I think it's good for both the state and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19734	Thank you, too. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Mr Milorad Pupovac to represent the views of the party on tax laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The SDSS advocates' club considers that the proposal to amend and supplement the Local Self-Government Funding Act contains a serious threat, which is that by changing the current way of financing units of local self-government in which the funds received by local self-government units were part of their income with original income and what came from the ministry or state. This revenue should now be shown and treated as aid. It has two perils in it, one fortunately removed that the ministry and the government were aware that development projects, development programmes primarily EU funds, but also national funding for most municipalities, cities and counties for the majority would only say, if we look at the first, second and third categories there is actually most Croatian counties and there is almost if not sure half, if not most of them surely half of the municipalities and cities. For them, if they had not had this mechanism to be used as income, they would actually be cut off from what they have had for the past few years as an opportunity, which is that they use these funds extensively and that they use plenty of national and European funding for development programmes on units of local self-government on regional self-government. It is fortunate that the Government is aware of this and that in the explanation of the article. Amendment 2. 8a left the existing law to be used as an asset rather than as an aid. However, this will not be enough because in the areas of development, the index of first group development, and here are the counties of Vukovar-Srijemska, Ličko-Senjska, Sisak-Moslavina, Virovitica-Podravska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Požesko-Slavonska, Brod-Posaviska and 77 municipalities and cities. If we add up that number of counties in the second group that goes from Osijek-Baranja to Sibenik-Kninska Karlovačka, then and if we add up 82 municipalities and the city then we will actually have a situation that most of these municipalities and cities will not be able to comply with the legal regulations, if the State Audit comes tomorrow and says you spent more than 20% of your original income and local self-government units will not be able to justify it if they are in any way influencing the funds that the state has under the foundation of this law characterises as aid, and by law they should not. And there's something that needs to be changed. We so welcome the parts of your speech, Mr. Minister, that you will take into account the sustainability of local self-government units and the development of their functions. We are absolutely in favour of establishing control of the means of spending material costs and wages, but we cannot accept that these funds, that the control regime is such that it actually chokes those units of local self-government, for Glina, for Vojnić, for Lasinj, probably not, but for Barilovic likely to remain only in this area that is close to Zagreb, for Dvor for sure. So as few as they have a relatively small number of employees, their original incomes are unfortunately too low. They have only just now begun to work on their development, which is also true for Bogdanovci right next to Vukovar, also applies to the Negoslave. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary for the government to combine two approaches, one is asset control. There are municipalities that not only spend funds as a master but because it could be better spent on development programmes, on social programmes, and not on wages and material costs. But on the other hand, in these environments, we almost all know who we are doing or coming from these environments, and a good part of our colleagues and colleagues come from such counties and such municipalities we know that it is to get a high-quality head, that it is to get a high-quality advisor, to get someone who is quality in terms of designing the program and everything that the municipality needs to apply for the project is extremely difficult, and without decent pay it is not possible anywhere, not here in Zagreb, let alone in those units of local self-government where there are no adequate numbers of apartments, where there is no health care, where there are no kindergartens, where there is no quality school. And if we're not going to ensure that they have at least a decent, not a luxuriant, not a wasteful means, but a decent means, to stimulate them to come and work there, then, unfortunately, you better say, we'd better cut you off. And abolishing in the circumstances of this kind of unbalanced development that exists in our country between developed parts and undeveloped parts is unreasonable and will cause serious consequences. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS trusts Mr. Ministers that you will find the modality until the end of this debate, or until this law is passed, in which you will open the possibility of combining and controlling, but also understanding for the needs of local self-government units especially in the first and second category of development, because those without this understanding will be in serious crisis and serious decline. If we were to decide now to introduce restrictive measures, and I'm not going to say that there is no space in the way in which the incentives are spent in agriculture, and there is space, we would seriously stop agricultural activities in the area of the country. If we need to keep this on the one hand in order to develop what has not been developed, and on the other hand to preserve the minimum competitiveness, so I ask you to understand that the relationship with the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities in which, as one of the commissioners said a long time ago when I visited it, I think it was about the chief of HDZ in Korenica, who said the one living in Lower Lapca that morning should see 100 marks just because he lives there. We don't advocate such a model, but we wouldn't want a good part of our local self-government units to be punished because they live there, that citizens are being punished because they live there and that the state is under some kind of pressure of rationalization in a place where this rationalization won't bring that kind of savings. We know where the savings are and the minister knows where the big savings are. Savings are in serious repression of corruption, savings are in serious consideration of the overall administration. I believe that in some of our cities, a higher percentage of employees who are not necessary for the functioning of these cities than perhaps 50 or 100 units of local self-government in total. That is why the SDSS Representatives Club is calling on the government and the minister to find a measure and solution for what we were talking about until the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19736	Thank you very much. Now an important announcement. Dear MPs and MPs, I would like to inform you that the debate on the report by the Republic of Croatia on the work of the state's attorneys in 2019 planned for tomorrow, and with the agreement of the applicant for the debate this week, we will postpone until the return of the main state attorney from isolation. How did it get here read like that? Let's move on, Mrs Grozdana Peric will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19737	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This second round of discussions on proposed laws amending the law on value added tax, profit, income, fiscalisation and cash transport and emergency procedure of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Compared to the first reading, there have been no significant changes in the laws themselves, but let me point out some specificities and some improvements relating to the above-mentioned amendments to the law. Despite the difficult year that has come to an end, the government has found ways to achieve everything that has been drawn up by the pre-election programme and has made it possible to intervene in these laws and create preconditions so that citizens of the Republic of Croatia and entrepreneurs have the opportunity to achieve as much income as possible, as much income as possible, and also that with these interventions that take place parallelly in order to help entrepreneurship can maintain the economy and thus ensure that in the following year we hope to grow from the projected 5%, and that some international institutions project even bigger ones like the IMF. It is normal that under these conditions we must really highlight all the difficulties that arise in this crisis year, which is caused especially by this pandemic or epidemic in our area and that it is very difficult to manage certain events. This package of measures contains, a total of more than 1.86 billion kuna disbursements for both entrepreneurs and citizens and this is not insignificant compared to the total budget. When we look at the interventions that take place in VAT, then we have to point out that what was very important was to actually maintain the liquidity of companies, and by intervention first for those who have revenues of up to 7.5 million kuna so that they can pay VAT for the paid realisation is something that allowed additional liquidity for entrepreneurs. Now that this threshold is increasing to 15 million kuna is very significant for all those who are in this proportion of total income. We know how much this liquidity means and how much these measures and just encouraging the liquidity of these small entrepreneurs can preserve the entire entrepreneurship. The profit tax plus this I have to mention VAT, actually there are shipments up to 22 euros where we saw that at this stage of the epidemic when a lot is ordered and big traffic is done directly with some of the houses that work delivery and trade then these 250 million that are going to get picked up this way is important because this is how we protect our entrepreneurs themselves. Profit tax is reduced from 12 to 10% for those who have traffic up to 7.5 million kuna, making business easier for smaller and small entrepreneurs. In the case of income tax, it is significant that these rates continue to decrease from 24 to 20 and 36 to 30%, which is very important for how citizens are, but we must point out that in the context of this, we must note that there is also a law on the financing of local self-government units, since we know that the revenues of local self-government units are mainly or most of the income is realised precisely from that tax. In fact, by showing these changes to the Finance Act, the government has raised the actual and original incomes of local and regional self-government units, thus increasing municipalities and cities from 60 to 74%, and by 17% to 20%, this part of the decentralised takes over the state budget and thus the original revenues will increase. There is, therefore, the goal of one way to stimulate citizens to feel that they are also able to benefit from certain benefits if they come into less environments, and it would also depend on the role of local self-government units to create preconditions for real entrepreneurs, but also families to live in their areas and thus help and create further preconditions for quality life and work. It also reduces income tax for renting, so from 12 to 10%, which is also significant for, as a relief, by also being very important to note that in this income tax law, conditions are changed and the introduction of a national award for older people who are thus exempt from income tax. The changes themselves through an increase in income tax due to the difference in value of assets and heights previously acquired are actually increasing that rate of penalties, they would say, which actually includes that part of the tax on acquired assets. When we talk about fiscalization, it is very important that this way the minister actually made it possible that the height of the cashier's max may be according to certain categories that it can be prescribed through the Regulation and thus can react much faster when it comes to the need for a certain procedure or height to change. Since this is, therefore, a second reading, with these minor changes, we think that this total package will make a significant contribution, therefore to the standard, as citizens, and we hope that even entrepreneurs will find their breath after all these crisis periods and the possibility that they can continue to work in the next period that we hope there will be no further locking of production and work itself, and thus, the HDZ Club will certainly support all these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19738	Thank you, too. The IDS and Mr. Marin Lerotic will now perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19739	Thank you, Vice President. Here, these tax changes and the legal proposals that are ahead of us feel that they are not in line with the situation and that they are not enough for the time we are in. The reduction in income tax and profit tax are measures that go in the right direction, but are not implemented in the right way because this will certainly not provide any significant increase in wages to citizens and raise their standards. It is clear that every kuna in our citizens' pockets is welcome, especially in these difficult moments, but with these modest moves, our economy will certainly not move and our citizens will not live better or their standards will not rise drastically. We also see that when the government makes tax laws between the two readings, it ignores the adverse consequences that lockdown has on the Croatian economy. This is not just about VAT at catering, which we've read about a lot these days, but about VAT in general. The general rate of 25% is the second largest in the EU since Hungary, and it is time to open a debate on when we will finally start to lower the overall rate and thus boost consumption and growth. The reasoning of the law shows that the reduction in VAT rates is not the subject of these tax changes because it is not the time for these changes. However, the question arises when that time will be, if not now at the time of this crisis and the inability to carry out activities. Obviously, then, let's see from a series of examples that in the Croatian state, it is only trying to get some revenue into the state budget as soon as possible, regardless of how citizens and entrepreneurs will pay and later survive and maintain their business. At the time of the worst economic indicators in recent decades, the state has done its utmost to avoid reducing the enormous expenditures of the state budget and implementing structural reforms. The key problem of public finances is the growing expenditure, regardless of revenue. What Croatia needs are investments and jobs that will be able to earn a decent living. We therefore consider it necessary to abolish the reinvested profit tax in order to enable new investments, the liquidity of businesses, to create new jobs. Also, paying a profit tax in advance is an unacceptable practice that needs to be changed because on this example we see that in Croatia the concept of the tax system is not for the purpose of encouraging and strengthening the entrepreneurship climate but for practically lending the state by entrepreneurs. Since part of this legislative package of amendments to the Law on Local Communities which increases the share of cities and municipalities in incomes are collected from income tax from 60 to 74% and to the county from 17% to 20%, someone could say at first sight how they will increase their income. However, taking into account that the Income Tax Act reduces tax rates on income, then, on that basis and income to those same local communities, they will, at best, end up at zero if they are not ultimately lost, as is otherwise derived from so-called. tax reforms. So this tax reform at first sounds nice, wages are increasing to citizens, tax discharges are also taking place, the share of cities, municipalities and counties in income tax, etc., etc., however, things are not so pink. The first and second readings did not last much time, not for a full month, but just a few days ago, there was a new partial closure of the Croatian economy that should have prompted the government to make this tax reform look a little different than at first reading. The entire service sector is closed, from catering, sports activities, fitness centres, gyms, they are forbidden to work, and it is obvious that the government does not monitor the situation and does not react and does not implement reforms that are in line with the real situation. What should be implemented as a fundamental reform, we believe that this tax system is fiscal decentralisation, and thus functional decentralisation. It means transferring powers, but also responsibilities to local and regional levels. Only then would the possibility of a stronger development potential for units of local and regional self-government best aware of the needs of their citizens and the priorities to be financed. Over the past 30 years, the state has shown that it is unable to ensure conditions for stronger economic growth and the growth of citizens' standards. How many more years and decades do we have to lose to realize that this centralist model has been missed and spent? Tax reform should relieve entrepreneurs and citizens, encourage investment and consumption, and speed up the process of exiting the crisis, and there is almost no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19740	Thank you very much. Now, the club of the Centre and Voice Representatives will be performed by Mrs. Glas. Anka Dark-Taritash and that video. Good afternoon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19741	Good morning, good afternoon, I hope you'll hear from me. Thank you very much, then I can begin the debate, so the Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister, here's the 5th round of tax reform. [[Yeah, I'll be in touch.]] Since it is the 5th round of tax reform, I will discuss it on behalf of our Club of the Centre and GLAS in five different topics. In the meantime, we will not support this 5th round of tax reform, and I will explain a little through this debate and what it is about. So, the first topic to be opened in this tax reform is to comply with our regulation with EU rules, and when it comes to the law on value added tax, these changes are, as a consequence of being part of the EU's single internal market and that's good. And it is good to work together with EU members to equalise conditions, facilitate business for all participants. It is particularly important that the states themselves, in this case legislators, do not create imbalances with their decisions or delays, to adapt to new circumstances. While equating conditions, I particularly stress the operating conditions for shipments from 3 countries worth less than 22 euros, which actually corrects another imbalance on the EU-wide market. The second topic I want to talk to you about is the VAT theme. So, as I mentioned in my first reading in the replica, Minister Marić, and in the second reading, I referred to the VAT. In the first reading, I stated it once again, and that is, in one way, the promise that the property sales tax for the purchase of the first real estate will be returned to zero again, i.e. to be released. We had it. It was a good method, it was a good way, but unfortunately we always have a way of forgetting, and every time we have to start over. We should really take care of it and keep it where it is. We should have left that, and I hope that next year, for which we all stress that it will be a demanding year, we will really go back because it was really about helping young people who are just getting started. When it comes to VAT, as I have now asked the Minister about women's hygiene supplies. So, other EU countries have reduced this, and I stress, let's say, Germany that did this last year or Scotland, in which hygiene needs are free, I think it's time that if there can't be zero VATs, so freed from paying VAT, that it's on hygiene supplies, these are hygienic pads and tampons, we really think about it being the least possible... 1% to be on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So symbolically, it would be very good to have it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third topic I want to talk about is business. In this 5th round of tax reforms, we have something that we must really and commend, and we commend the reduction, a further reduction in the tax profit rate when it comes to profit tax for 12 to 10% for all those who earn revenue above 7.5 million kuna per year. This is particularly interesting because that category includes more than 93% of all taxpayers. In doing so, I would like to emphasise something else that we stress every time, that when it comes to profit tax, it would be very good not to pay an advance but to pay a real price in real terms, but as already in the 1st debate the Minister explained why he did not accept something, but it would be good, regardless of all this together, to really think about it and to be concerned about it and to take care of it. Business is very important. It is extremely important that we allow employers to operate as easily as possible. It's extremely important that all those impose that for years, you know as one big train that goes on coal, and then he, you have to fill it with coal and it's very hard to stop. I have a feeling that for years we've filled that train with parafiscal intrusions and now it's very difficult for anyone to decide that the extra coal train is throwing them away and to stop that train from driving on coal at all, which would be even more incomparably better for a simple reason because for years we've been loading them on the back and entrepreneurs of different loads. This coronary crisis has actually shown a real state. It shows a real state of relationship between us and each other, but it also shows a real state that without some things you can and that without some things you really need to be able to function. The 4th topic I want to point out is the topic that they are, is about our citizens. We encourage all those changes that allow our citizens and their wallets in the home budget to remain as much as possible. The same and acceptable things are for us and for us to allow a certain workforce that we do not have to stay in Croatia to go somewhere further, especially when it comes to certain highly qualified experts, IT experts, but it all goes too slowly together. Decisions shall not be taken in the manner in which they are to be made. Often, it is entered by a conservative method and in a conservative way, in other words it is often quite somehow decided to go too slowly when it comes to it. So all that can be done to help our citizens, let's be faster and more efficient. And lastly, as the 5th, what I would like to stress specifically, and these are units of local or regional self-government. The change in which it is going, and the proposed distribution in taxes is 74% for cities and municipalities, 20% for 6% for decentralised functions, and for fiscal balancing is projected to be paid directly from the budget of 2 billion kuna for next year. However, the problem remains unresolved and is often discussed without real insight into the role and importance of local and regional self-government. We often swear to decentralisation, but decentralisation in this way in which municipalities and cities and counties do not have enough resources to do their actual duties, they do not fulfill their role. The debate is often driven towards the violent abolition of a large number of these units, but the real issue that we all need to ask ourselves is whether we have allowed local or regional self-government units to actually serve their purpose. To have their own money and power. So the residents themselves shifted their local sheriff who spent money on cars, lambs, secretaries, something he wrote down, and they see that a kindergarten or a home of health was built in a neighboring municipality with the same money. Your Honor, I'd really be dishonest to the end and I wouldn't be correct if I didn't say we had one small step, but that's absolutely not enough. Our citizens and entrepreneurs will not feel it the way they need to feel. You've made up your mind, you've been doing this for six years, going by a conservative method. This method on a long stick can actually come up with some result, but ask our citizens, they don't see that result. What we all see together, which is that the cost of growing from year to year, regardless of the crown, is that you hide the deficit with accounting tricks, that the client groups that keep you in power increasingly shout, give, give, more and more. And you can't do that, Your Honor. Now, as I have already said, it will be six years that you are in a piece, a continuity in power, you have not touched a single single large system that sucks out the last drop of this country's budget. Where is health care, where is the pension system, where jobs that carry more added value, there's no such thing. For what reason? Because HDZ doesn't know or won't? Or both? So we have to be correct, some small shifts are made, but for this country that's not enough. This country, HDZ, when you look at EU lists, is really at the bottom. What we all have to do together to make sure it's not at the bottom, and as I already said first, the Center and GLAS Club can't support your 5th tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19742	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn to represent the position on these, the laws, the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19743	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here I have no intention of criticizing these bill proposals because so most will bring what they want, but they are responsible for what they do. In fact, I'll have some suggestions, so if there's a will, at least let them listen, if they don't want to adopt. Any reduction in tax pressure on entrepreneurs is to welcome. And even this, which may not be enough, but is a reduction, because entrepreneurs, those who employ themselves, have done a great thing, and especially those who hire one or more employees by their business activity and regularly pay their salaries and all their... which they have to pay on the payroll. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately, in this tax system of ours, there's a lot of entrepreneurship for me, so here, I'm going to look back at one that's particularly important in the agricultural sector, and those who deal with entrepreneurship in agriculture is when you buy a machine, like in Germany, you buy for a net value, you don't have to pay the amount of VAT. Taxes. However, if you buy in Croatia from a company or from another agricultural producer or not to say, truckers, you must pay gross means and amount + VAT. And then wait for that amount to come back. It is often worth about 50 and 100 thousand kuna for VAT tractors, which is difficult for you to find the part that you would have to pay at the time you struggle to find the means, for the basic means of work. I know the amendments won't be accepted, which we write, and I think it's a barren job. I also propose one hidden support for smaller farmers, i.e. for those below the threshold of entering the VAT system, to have their state, to free them of VAT on the instructions. This is not a significant amount for the Republic of Croatia, but these are the agricultural producers that are most vulnerable to the collapse of their OPGs, and this kind of aid might transfer them to a higher category and strengthen them because this kind of hidden support has many countries in the EU and our farmers are then less competitive than they are. I don't know when we're going to introduce that VAT is paid for the bill because it really doesn't make sense that we pay VAT in Croatia, so when the bill is paid, we pay, but the VAT has to pay. The reduction in tax rates from 24 to 20 and from 36 to 30 is to greet, but still, we reduce those with lower yields, and we reduce those with higher profits more. I think it would be a good idea to balance those relationships, so let's make it about everyone the same. Here, recently I was in Germany, sitting down, talking to an entrepreneur who, I'll say, from the Balkans, worked there for more than 20 years, had his own company, my question about how much he gave to the state, he gave me as from the cannon 42%. Unfortunately, our entrepreneurs can't say that because they don't know for themselves how much they pay the state anymore, and my proposal to consider both the Minister and the Ministry and the Government, that the entrepreneur in Croatia has only one payment card to the state, that he knows exactly how much payment he pays to the state, and I think we have enough state apparatus and information tools that the country can then deploy to its own users as much as it belongs to. Tax rates, so it shouldn't be divided according to income, as we have now reached some limit of 7.5 million kuna because I think we should share them by profit level because often profit is not proportional to income, often it is vice-proportional as the higher income, the profit is reduced. I think profit should be taxed, and then it's kind of fair because the ones that earn the most, of course, that they have to be solid to others and pay more into the tax system of the Republic of Croatia. Another of the illogicalities that I have observed, given that compared to the pandemic that the government is expecting reduced economic activity, that a reduced tourist season is expected again because now it is time to create a tourist season and when people decide where to spend their summers, in which destinations, in which countries, I am telling you from experience because I've been doing this job for a while. I think a lot of jobs are going to be shut down because of the pandemic. You testify on your own and you see that even now people are losing their jobs because of stopping economic activity, but I don't understand how we were then planning a tax on goods and services with an increase from 59 billion to 70, meaning 12 billion increases and a profit tax from 6.5 to 8.2 billion, so 1.7 billion increases. I believe that we will neither have an increase in profits nor an increase in taxes on goods and services, not by guilt or by the Ministry or by government, but by the greatest pandemic that is in the government, which then causes measures that are in force, whether they are justified or not justified, it is a topic for another debate, but I also believe that we may not be in relation to economic activity and the situation in the Croatian economy well assessed when, as well as what we introduce, when and how we allow, and we have choked business and economic activities with many things, although we may not have had to do so. Here, when I mentioned that I was recently in Frankfurt, it was a month ago, the catering facilities there didn't work, but everything else worked, and services and baustels and all the companies there, but they obviously evaluated some things in time and those entrepreneurs, i.e.. The guests who are here at the moment most affected have determined a fee according to last year's profits to some 70, 75% to calm them down what they will lose and that they can, not say calm hearts, but without any concern for their survival and their employees to close those facilities for a certain period in order to contain the pandemic of the coronaryvirus. I think that we need to think more and that we need to look more at the well-being of all together, and not only the well-being of certain groups in Croatia, it's usually stakeholders and lobbyists who all bring down all the water on someone's mill, and unfortunately those small ones who don't know about themselves are most affected by this situation that is. Here, this morning, driving a car to Zagreb I listened on the homeless radio, about the number of homeless people in Zagreb and other cities, in Kutina. I think they're also the product of the wrong tax policy that we've been running for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19744	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ivan Penava who will represent the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19745	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. I will go with praise, commendation in terms of changes to these tax laws in this section as regards the disbursement of wages in terms of the reduction of income tax rates. And as well as the predecessors, I think it's good, that citizens will eventually, through greater consumption and live more comfortable, that they will be better, but also, that through increased VAT returns, at least some of these funds will settle down. However, as we speak about VAT, I must also immediately, on the trail of colleagues who have previously spoken, stress that it is quite illogical, I don't know if it would have called it an unacceptable practice, a harrass, and it's incomprehensible to me that you haven't been able to change what your colleague was talking about before, the way you charge VAT, that it's not going to do what would logically, understandably to anyone to charge VAT on the moment when the goods or services are being charged, or when it's coming in, and not that it's going through the invoice or on the issue of goods, so that this model, which, unfortunately, at the moment you haven't been able to change it, is like the goal of choking and this very questionable, very questionable capacity of the financial, fiscal capacity of the economy, because we're practically allowing these entrepreneurs to credit the state, which I think, and here in these minutes that I'll still be able to confirm. By listening to Minister Maric, I agree with that and I commend him and the ministry, all of you in the ministry, if you had a goal, and I agree that it is a valuable goal, to strengthen the fiscal capacities of the local self-government units, that you have succeeded, it is undeniable and as I have said, the goal is to satisfy you in this sense of praise. What I would like to point out as a problem that does not stem from you, but continues in time as you are on the duties you are acting, which is a constant change in the legal framework which represents a huge problem from the aspect of the planning of the operations of the local self-government units because these many years behind us, and under these changes created an atmosphere of uncertainty where it is absolutely impossible in accordance with the legal rules, especially on the budget to be put professionally, professionally, professionally and anything planned. When you add to this the situation of unknowns from different funds, from these from the EU to these from the national level, such as the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, where you simply cannot plan on certain revenues because you do not know whether or not the project will pass, there is indeed a situation in terms of planning impossible and for the current year, let alone 2 or 3 years in advance. So what about the praises in terms of this, the mini tax reform I will conclude, what I have to say and express my opinion, is that you've actually made a huge mistake in terms of the approach you've taken because, because you've taken up a bit of a nerdy defensive, conservative, as your colleague said earlier, in a way that, or best of all, I'm going to show you, in this corona situation and you at national level, but also many units of local and regional self-government or administration, these days we're all helping the economy together. However, there is nothing wrong with that, it is commendable, whenever we help someone, it is indeed commendable. However, we have to ask ourselves how much imbalance we have created, or imbalances, and how different this is when the state and public administration live so well, they are so strong that here, for example, they are strong. From my budget in the city of Vukovar, I don't know which way, but as a result of this crown crisis we push and place funds towards the economy, I think for the 3rd time in question, you really have to ask yourself what such proportionality is. Wasn't it more logical that we were balanced here somewhere or that, however, that the economy is stronger and that we are weaker so that the economy pushes us and drags us, but that we are in a position to doubt or, I would be very interested in the number in today's economy that will be able to pay for different, examples of, pay supplements like Christmas, while all of us will agree that the units of local and regional self-government, that the public administration will have no problem with that. That we don't go any further to the depths, but we really need to ask ourselves about that fact. What I would say is that especially wrong went away, when we talk about units of local and regional self-government is that you chose one way to help which, of course, is one possible and commendable, but is a mistake made in the fact that it is the only way, and these are direct donations from the state budget and we are grateful, we go up in that sense. However, the approach is very bad in the long term is there are two other ways that, which we have not respected that we have been neglecting for years, one is about changing the tax system, which is supposed to be, it should have been the subject of this reform in a way that we can disburse the economy and allow both domestic and foreign investors to invest in Croatia, mainly in areas that are lagging behind because in this way we are simply not competitive. The second part of the story concerns decentralisation of public and state administration, which should certainly include state firms and agencies, in a way that we have focused everything in Zagreb as the capital and that everything is happening in Zagreb, and in fact the whole periphery of the state, not to say one ugly expression, but in practice it becomes so, the province, the helmet more and more and more and more and more, the situation has become so critical that it becomes so critical that it becomes questionable that more and more Croatian state can make a necessary and strong step in the direction that it should return life to the places from which this same life is irrevocable, which we will witness very quickly, unfortunately through the census of the year. So, this reform, if I were to look at it, I could observe it in a way that, through this proposal, the government behaves as if it had never heard that Chinese proverb, give the man a fish, and you'll feed him in one day, but learn to fish and give him supplies, you'll feed him for life. I'm sending a message here, I'm going to agree to even my colleague Pupovac, so let's just say that there's some curiosity in something, indeed, he mentioned, a colleague of Pupovac, but we can mention Korenica, we can mention Sinj, Trilj, we can mention Petrinja, Clay, Sisak, and according to Slavonia to Ilock or in the north, we've heard colleagues, really life in these areas disappears and girls because we're not through the tax system of this country, and we don't have this opportunity that we're now finishing, we recognize the situation that countries in the environment are much more competitive, that investments in this sense are bypassing us, and these investments, these jobs in the economy are unfortunately or fortunately supposed to be our stick, and it's supposed to be the fish through which we're going to be feeding our whole life. Thank you for these donations, however, it's that fish for one day, of which we have no perspective, people feel it, but unfortunately they're empty. In that sense, I cannot support these changes because I really think that the current moment required a much more serious approach, a much braver approach, and, unfortunately, we have not witnessed this and therefore I fear the consequences of the continuation, continuity of this tax policy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19746	Thank you, too. Mr. Dario Hrebak will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19747	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Vice-President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. First on behalf of the HSLS Club and reformers, we will support such bill proposals, secondly, I will immediately start with certain things that I think are good, especially that send a strong, optimistic message in these difficult moments that all the country, not only ours but the whole of Europe, is practically found, sometimes I feel like we are the only ones here, when we listen to the opposition one island, that there are only problems happening to us, and everywhere else, in other countries of Europe flowers and everything is great, wonderful and wonderful. It's not exactly like that, we and some of our remarks, we have some criticism, but in general how our economy works, I agree with my colleague Penav, and on the other hand, we are where we are and we need to see what can be done. According to me in this law in terms of this law, Minister Maric has done a lot, so surely there can always be more and more and better there, but at the moment when the consequences of the crown crisis are growing, I think we have done a lot, I can testify from my example as mayor of a city, there have been a lot of quality discussions and during today's morning in HS. What should, of course, be commended that despite the difficult budgeting for next year and I can bear witness to it myself, it is not easy for me in my town to agree on the budget for the following year, when it is expected to grow slightly slower than we may have gotten used to lately, but it should really be commended that there is room for all this, that we are going to further cut income tax. Of course, the opposition has its legitimate right to demand a VAT reduction, and I would personally be happier if the VAT was lower, but also, I can absolutely understand Minister Maric that he can't do everything in the most critical year in the last few years. The message that we're lowering income tax is a strong message. Let's remember in 2011, I think with this message we're sending a strong optimism that we won't forget the economy like we did in 2011. At that time, we waited almost 7, 8, perhaps for several years to return to some pathways or budgets as they were before. Personally, I also want to answer something to all those who are a little populist about how these tax changes on income we take, give to the rich, take to the poor. And on the other hand, we're all full of mouths about how we should keep our young scientists, our young doctors, our young ITs, so what, they're doing for 5 or 6 thousand kuna? So let's be realistic, so let's say how many of these people work outside, so three or four or five thousand euros. So, and now it's hard for us to say that those with 2,000 euros in Croatia, how much they pay in this sector, are some kind of rich people. Well, they're not rich people, especially we'll be great poor, if that young team goes out of the country and goes to some more developed countries for three to four thousand euros. Then we'll watch them, I don't know what, as EU citizens, not more rich people. So that's where we need one pulsism to the lowest possible extent. Personally, I don't know if I'm wrong about the Ministers, but I think that some 60% is your base for those people who don't have to pay any more taxes, right, in terms of income tax. So there's no room left, or we're going to cut down on these people or we're not going to cut them down at all. I personally believe that, as far as possible, income tax and general labour tax should be reduced to the least possible, to the maximum possible extent possible today. So, the 3rd thing you'd like to talk about, I think your colleague Penava is in that part of it and he said, maybe we're breaking up here a little bit, so local self-government. So if we're going to get out of these places, where we're shooting, where the cameras are, where each of the parties have to take their political trenches, where we have to show that we're members of the left, right, or I don't know, liberal options, and then we put the whole context into that story. If we're gonna move aside, I know what the mayors and the mayors and the mayors are talking about. And that's exactly what tax changes are like, by decentralisation exactly income tax and leaving one large part of it to local self-government, it means a lot to us. So I can set an example of my city where about 12 million kunas of around 85.6 million original income, so 12 million kunas, we have been decentralised by this very approach to our budget. What does that mean? I heard it today in the debate, as the construction sector did, it's good, so from the direction of the opposition, which is to say that Mr. Lalovec pointed it out as one good thing, but do you think these people do apartments? So only apartments are built in Croatia? No, they're building right across the EU funds that we can now as a local self-government, we who are successful in withdrawing EU funds can keep this particular building sector alive where they, of course, work communal and all the other infrastructures of all our cities. Look only in the last 3 or 4 years at which the number of European funds, the European money done by cities, municipalities and counties has erupted, and then you will understand why the construction sector is still alive. None of that would be possible if we didn't have that 12 million kuna. A plastic example, the town of Bjelovar, 2 years old, 142 million kuna. Our participation of 30 million kunas. Whoever the mayor knows how hard it is to get that 30 million kuna. Every year at 12, there he is. I'm not talking about reducing the cut. Many cities have reduced the cut, however, one criticism should be said, I also spoke on the subject with Minister Maric, it should also be made clear, as politically unfortunate as it is, that a part of the people, our colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, the mayor, the mayor, has increased the pay masses. So they didn't go to the dispensation of the extra tax cut, taxed on consumption, everything else, but we have cases where both mayors and mayors, as well as the mayors use 120 percent of the maximum amount allowed by law for mass pay. My city, for example, is at 40%. What do you think I'm looking at is 15 people, so we cut down on the city administration staff, and on the other hand my colleagues are putting in their administrative units. Is that normal? That's the same thing to talk about, isn't it? I think it's also good that you found in the budget and the funds related to this particular section of the co-financing fund where the European funds, therefore, are being co-financed by the additional state, because it will give us even greater optimism that the EU funds have become even stronger. It's very important, too, that so-called. a recovery fund or a programme of resilience and recovery that I think is necessary, that it is important and that we should use it in the next year and this, what I would like to stress, I think it has already been said, in advance of the tax on profits, I know that this is extremely difficult. On the other hand, you should again commend your loans to us cities, etc., here only at this moment my city is asking, asking the state through requests for compensation of more than 12 million kunas. Now you tell me how to pay the salary in the city administration with 12 million kuna, just like this, so just these various credit-free loans that the ministry made possible for our reduced income tax and this one good synergy between the state and the local community, we were able to bridge that one bridge of liquidity. I think it's also a good example. But in the long run, therefore, perhaps at this point it is difficult to implement structural reforms, and in the long run it is also necessary to think about abolishing the profit tax advances. I'm going to end up taking another little opportunity that may not be directly related to this law, but it's definitely tied to the finance minister. Today, we have placed the point of amending and supplementing the law on local and regional or regional self-government in which there is transparency of the obligations of all mayors, mayors and mayors so that they must show each kuna they spend from the budget. So we send a strong message, so, transparency and that citizens have the right to oversee us politicians, local leaders, to take down that line of local sheriffs, and, of course, the next step will be from his portfolio, that the sooner he comes to the amendment of the Law on the State Budget, where we will ask as a club to include and the provision of 100,000 kunas for each of those local sheriffs, I will say so, which is very little, but there are also the stigmas that are unnecessarily laid down for them, to place 100,000 kuna fines and indeed, I think that this and the Minister will help, in their work, that indeed by sublaw act in his resolution are simply similar to what we did in Bjelovar and some other cities, I see exactly every kuna, every payout, we live in the 21st century, a time of modern technology, when it is extremely easy, it will not be an administrative cost, no matter of any kind of locality, as to be easy for us, as well as the localstors, which is easy to be able to be able to be able to pay for the local people and the locals, and the local people to pay. Thank you again and we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19748	Thank you very much. Now we'll have 15 minutes off by 12.45 to clear the hall. 12.45. It's 12.27 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.27 HOURS]] Now it's individual debates. The first is Mrs. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19750	Good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with this tax reform being presented as a fairer tax system. But let's put it in some numbers. What does the fairer tax system mean in the minds of the ruling? So this is what it's going to look like, those with 25,000 kunas are going to get this tax reform of around 1,500 kuna. Those with 10,000 kuna will only get about a few hundred kuna, and those below 10,000 kuna will receive less than 100 kuna. So this is a fair tax reform by the ruling. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution says that everyone should be, that everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic opportunities, and that the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. So I'm now asking you whether in this principle of equality and justice. And that we understand each other first and foremost should say that we are in the EU according to official statistics, so Eurostat has the highest income tax, one of the highest income tax, an EU tax on consumption, and one of the lowest income tax and capital taxes of the richest. So the exact opposite of what the rulings are doing, profit and capital tax should be increased. Of course, it's all done with some argument that those who have more and more will invest but that's not happening. So, we had a report from the CNB a few days ago showing that the accumulation of savings by the richest still increased by 11 billion kuna, that 1/4 of the richest, so the one holding most of the savings in his hands, so 1% of the richest is holding 1/4 of the total savings, so that's the new data, so that even increased there was a little bit less. This is an argument that those who have and invest will find it difficult to defend. What is, of course, behind all this is a dangerous and social Darwinist premise that those who have to be allowed to have even more, and those who do not have only a threat to even greater poverty can be forced to do more work, and that is what we here need to reconsider with this tax reform and we need to stand up to it. What would be truly fair tax taxation? It would be progressive taxation, so I will present to my amendments, illustrate one model that could be a truly progressive taxation, which is taxation with rates 10, 20, 40, 80%. Why are those rates so progressive? Because according to the report, according to the statistics of the State Statistics Institute, 90% of people have paid less than 15,000 kuna gross. These people therefore need to raise salaries, and those over 30,000 kunas need to be reduced. With this tax reform proposed by the Workers' Front, it is possible. For illustration, the first thing that is needed is to raise the untaxable part to 5,000 kuna, and then move those rates 10, 20, 40 and 80% for those over 30,000 kuna gross. By such tax means the proposal would, if you work for the minimumer get 1,600 kuna more, and if you work for 15,000 gross wages you would have 1,062 kuna higher, and if you work for 30,000 kuna gross 177 kuna higher, and everything above means we would tax the tax rate of 80%. Why 80%? Some may say this is a very high rate, but at that rate, it would be applied to a very small number of people who have such high wages would reduce pay gaps because there is no need or justification that someone has 50 times the minimum wage. Nobody works or works 50 times better. The question is where to find it, the means to be fair and say it means that tax reform is one smaller part, which provides a smaller possibility of overcoming social inequalities but certainly the right to tax reform would involve an increase in the tax on profits, then introducing taxes on digital giants. And first of all, taxes for, well, okay. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19751	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs Grozdana Peric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19752	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm just going to take a quick look at this tax, fifth round of tax reform. In fact, several times has been mentioned here that Croatia has a large share of GDP taxes, so it would like to note that the share of taxes and contributions to GDP is Croatia compared to the EU and the Eurozone even has a lower share of taxes, in GDP, and that is about 37,5.8% while the EU average is 40% in GDP and Eurozone 41%. So when we look at EU members, say France has a share of tax and contribution 48.4, Belgium 47%, Denmark 46, etc., the only Ireland and Romania have a lower, Ireland 23.5% and Romania 25.8%. Why am I saying that? So let's see that the fact that with these tax reforms is really tax and tax burden, the tax press was much lower and this can be nominally determined by years from 2016 on here. Only this change in these four laws is almost 2 billion, and not to list all those previous years and when we see that in the ratio of tax revenues compared to the total budget they are still large, but the fact that it went parallelly with a significant reduction in the tax press both citizens and entrepreneurs. Therefore, there is a need to compare with both the EU and the euro area where they see that in these areas, the actual burden is even higher, given that they also tax that part of the property that we still have is not taxed in such a way. I would like to point out once again that with these tax changes that are happening and now, despite the crisis, despite a special year of challenging and difficult for the government to find ways to help, both citizens and entrepreneurs, it has found sources of high quality and made it possible by the end of the year, and the beginning of next year, part of entrepreneurs and citizens can be very calm, given that one part of the income or income will be compensated. Certainly none of us are satisfied and oversatisfactory about what happened, but there is still a big difference compared to many countries that have not offered all these measures and opportunities to do so in Croatia, that we can certainly be much calmer than those who do not. I would like to point out once again here, and that is that it is precisely our EU membership that has made it possible for us to rely precisely on that part of the funds that will be made available from the EU budget or from the new generation, and I hope that these funds will also be used very quickly and qualityly as they are used and already these initial initial funds that we are witnessing. Therefore, this is proof that this is exactly how these measures really help both citizens and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19753	Thank you very much. Stay here and have a few replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, this is always the topic we often discuss, and I agree that these reforms, i.e. By replacing the tax code, we can discuss whether it's enough, not enough, whether it's much or small. However, I cannot agree with one of your findings that you said in your presentation, which is also said by Minister Maric, that the original incomes of local self-government units are increasing. You said that most income comes from income tax and that's true, but these changes and amendments to the tax law won't increase any kuna because on the one hand we're reducing the tax rate from the other we're increasing the percentage that goes to the local self-government unit, but the difference in mass is zero. And all the mayors now and the mayors and mayors who prepare the budgets base their budgets on income tax on income on last year's income. So... These changes do not increase revenue. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19755	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19756	Yeah, in one part we can agree. In fact, you're saying that since income tax cuts, income tax rates to reduce this base, but at the same time by reducing that base you get a relative share of income tax, so it rises to 74%, all of these are facts. This may happen for some units of local self-government to be zero, but it may happen and it may not happen in that way but rather be more. Why? We're here again depending on the situation that will be, whether we start a business or not, whether we hire more people or not, and whether we have bigger salaries or not. Then we'll have a much bigger income tax and income in local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19757	The second line has Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19758	Here I don't know how to actually show it differently than to show you this table of official Eurostat statistics means European where you can see where Croatia is per VAT. So this is Croatia, this is the EU average, Croatia is the highest place in the EU for VAT. On the other hand, you can see how much capital tax in the EU means the average capital tax you have here, Croatia is here. So we have one of the lowest capital taxes and one of the highest consumption taxes. These are statistical data, I don't know where you get information that Croatia doesn't stand out according to VAT, and I'm also interested in what you think about capital. Does Croatia have a high rate of capital tax?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19759	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19760	I did not say that, so the total share of taxes and contributions to GDP is even below the EU. As for taxation spending here you're right, we're here in that group only one more state has a bigger VAT than us. It's a fact and that's it. But I say the total amount of taxes and contributions when as a common parameter which, and these are the same Eurostat data, makes us even below EU level. Therefore, there is still room there, but we haven't as a state used what the EU and the Eurozone use, which is real estate taxation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19761	Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19762	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs here I must say that in this crown the crisis of immeasurable proportions that Minister Maric has done very much to make the finances. You can talk about a little or a lot here, but we also can't and we can't forget that this is the fifth round of financial discharge. Do you think it's better to go into financial reform that people, with the intention of better living or not despite the crown crisis where we've beaten so much money, would be better for all of us than if there hadn't been a crown crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19763	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19764	Thank you very much. Thank you, my dear colleague, so what is evident, and that is that tax reform itself, and the Minister of Finance itself cannot, or fiscally, do anything but do much compared to what we were in until 2016, is also evident from the fact that the state budget and the public debt was constantly falling. Therefore, we had surpluses of the state budget, and that actually created the preconditions that we were much more willing to welcome this new crisis, but it is also evident that the untaxable revenues have increased, that there has been an increase in payment opportunities through the Income Tax Regulation, other payments, so the standard of citizens has increased, and that is what has enabled entrepreneurs and citizens to do better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19765	And finally Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19766	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you said your colleague Peric that despite the situation we are in, the government has found a way to help our citizens and entrepreneurs. So here we just have to remember, based on the change and addition of the profit tax law, we have a decrease from 12 to 10%, and not so long ago, we have to remember that we had a profit tax of 20% which was then reduced by medium and large enterprises to 18, for small to 12, now it's going back to 10, and what's most important is that the threshold instead of 3.5 million has increased to 7 million and thus even 93% of our entrepreneurs have a lower profit tax, so only on the basis of that one change and the addition of one law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19767	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19768	That's right, thank you very much, so it's only one segment where it's allowed small entrepreneurs up to 7.5 million kuna to pay only 10 now in the final percent of the profit tax, and a year ago it was 20%. It may seem irrelevant to someone, but also mentioning those advances that say that, to eliminate them is a big difference whether it's going to be a 10% advance or it's going to be 20%. There's still those big companies that pay 18% and they're not banks and all the other companies that do more traffic, so here's what's big, big help. But what I would like to point out once again is that it is a very big help that companies, up to 15 million kunas of traffic, pay VAT on the paid realisation if they want to, which is an additional liquidity for every entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19769	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on. We're done taking a stand, we continue the debate, let's see who. Mr. Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19771	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we continue this live debate on tax laws today, income tax, profit, VAT, the Law on fiscalisation of cash and the Law on the financing of local self-government. As I have already said, this debate today is much better than it is in the first reading, obviously many of the villages that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic changes in the fifth round of tax reform through 5 laws and what it contributes at the end of this year and before the beginning of the next financial year anyway. And while some MPs in five months. The three parties' changes and they call themselves reformists, we will try, says, through the 5th round of tax reform to release what we have clearly announced. 2 billion kuna for the benefit of Croatian citizens and certainly entrepreneurs who carry all economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. When we add that to the last four rounds of tax reform, 10 billion tax evasion is not a meaningless amount so that we can talk about it not being about any reforms or just playing with numbers. This is why we should again be proud of what we are changing and why we are changing it and why it is good and why the basic policy of this government is reducing taxes, which is why Croatian citizens clearly recognized it 4 months ago. and clearly said what they wanted and what they thought about this government that had done a similar job and what they wanted in the future. Regardless of all others who have also competed and offered their solutions and also the progressive rates we have heard about here today and the way they see the tax system in the Republic of Croatia. If anyone is bothered by the increase in the threshold for the application of the taxation procedure according to fees from 7.5 to 15 million kuna, which will cover 149 000, almost 150 000 Croatian entrepreneurs or 96%, we have heard clearly, they will be against it and will not vote for that law. It's up to us to insist and pass such a law. As far as profit tax is concerned, a reduction in the tax rate of profit for entrepreneurs who generate income of up to 7.5 million kuna from 12 to 10%. It is clear that 10 is less than 12 and that those who deal with the economy, entrepreneurship understand clearly what it means to them. Those who feel that this is not good do not have to accept such a bill as neither a colleague of Grmoi or a colleague of Bulj or some other MPs because they have better solutions, of course, that no one has ever seen. As for the amendment of the Income Tax Act, it has caused the most debate because it is incurring budgets for local self-government but of course also contributing to citizens in terms of their salaries. The reduction in income tax rates from 24 to 20, from 36 to 30 and from 12 to 10, is clearly sent a message that we want higher wages as much as possible. Clearly, the minister has said many times that not everything depends on this law, nor will any salary be higher because we will pass such a law that is under discussion. There's a lot and we all know it very well. What matters to me and this is the Law on the financing of local self-government where the share of the municipality increases from 60 to 74%, the county from 17 to 20, the share of decentralised functions remains 6%, and these 17% for balancing, are no longer paid by local self-government, but will take over the state budget, it is our help. I'm going to say my situation in my budget because we're at the end of the year now and we know what we've accomplished. Our tax revenues, regardless of the season which was 50% since last year, showed on less activity that income tax is achieved almost 100%. Where did we lose most of our taxes? That so-called. The flat-rate tax paid by the tenants, we simply didn't earn one I mean war, and that's the minus we're going to record this year, and that should be made clear. But that's not why the Ministry of Finance was wrong, though, it helped as much as it could in this situation. And now listen that we are not for it, of course, there are those who think that they always have better solutions and that they are the ones who need to solve it. When the opportunity comes, I may not know when, in the future far away, they will likely have the opportunity to show what they know about it, both Mr. Grumoy and Bulj, and gentlemen and all the others from the opposition but I see that they still have the feeling that this is still good and that any lunch could tomorrow or when the vote comes, come in favor of these laws too because we should come before the citizens and tell us against tax cuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19772	Here, we have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19773	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Boric, let me just briefly answer you, briefly and very clearly, better and 100 political different parties than one who is accused of corruption. It is better to change the political party several times than to be a member of that political party that has been robbing for so long, harassing the state and led to hundreds of thousands of its citizens and residents moving out of it for several years with a message that they have been driven away by a bad economic situation, not underpaid jobs or inability to find jobs, rather than corruption, clientelism and nepotism. You don't need your muscles to show us how stronger you are right now than the opposition. Show your muscles by improving the standard of living for our citizens. When you have that in mind, I'll be happy to listen to your speeches. Not like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19774	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19775	Well, I don't know what it's about. Dalia reported, I didn't call anyone here by name or last name, why she identified herself obviously in a statement, it's probably true then. Because if someone says they're five months old. You changed three parties, you probably admitted it by raising a line, no, then it's an obvious fact that there's no discussion. And now you come here for a pay phone and you tell us that we're not reformers, so then I said okay, if reformers are the ones who change in five months. 3 parties, I guess citizens will know that in any election, here are the locals now and you're in favour of abolishing I don't know, local self-government etc., so you'll make that clear where you run if you want to. You probably will. The ambitions of dissatisfaction are always something that drives them to the maximum, meaning that they always give and they would want or dare much more themselves, but so, the dissatisfied always remain dissatisfied no matter how much you threaten to do everything when you come to that power.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19776	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19777	Thank you. Dear colleague Boric, I will not threaten you, obviously you have some problems, some fears, I see here that you are reacting very badly to your colleague Oreskovic, I will ask you only one question. When you talk about the opposition, so that's why you often mentioned me in this debate, you're quite fixated on me, that we've never offered anything. Well, here, this exclusive economic belt is an example that we've offered you three times, you've voted against it three times, and now you're doing it in a subversive manner. As far as tax reform is concerned, we've put the whole package of tax laws in the process, you've put something and you've rejected it, you don't want to put anything at all into debate, so it's not true, but your right and I agree with you here, that like those who run the government, that you reject what the opposition is proposing, and that you're proposing your own measures, I don't have any problems and I want to threaten you in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19778	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19779	I do not see any replica as a threat, perhaps you do, but or verbal communication something that should be considered to be happening in such a way as you suggest. So, I say what I say openly, always honestly, whether I think it likes it or not, and so do you, Mr. Grmoy, because you're one of the leaders of those destroyers who think that everything in this space is. anything on the agenda should be destroyed. And that's some kind of card you're going to go out with tomorrow, just like you've been dating before. What I know, that works sometimes say maybe more than words and what's left behind, while you've had a chance to make decisions in one town of Metkovic, so we hear there's a lot of those who had to go back to work and there's been paid a great amount of damage that's been done while you're handing out, like, one of the main people in that town, it's possible that it's some of your work or that work that I mentioned was, a purifier. which has not happened in your time at all. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19780	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19781	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I would like to commend once more Mr. Maric's Minister of Finance who is doing an excellent job and despite the crisis, the immeasurable crisis of the coronary pandemic virus, he does not care about tax reform. And he would ask you, what do you think, why the opposition denies everything and do you know what they're offering, why don't they tell us that magic formula to make us all happy and better with their suggestions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19782	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19783	My colleague Simičević, thank you for the replica. So what we listened to in the first reading, and now and in the second is essentially the story of those who have paid, they can't get the most in this tax, and those who have the great that they will get the most. That's what they are, as far as I understand it, I understand it, and then it's unfair. Because I guess we're all in the same pay grade and we all have the same kind of lives, we're doing the same thing. We receive the same pay, etc., we simply come to the fact that it is trying to make such a populist suggestion that everything done as an effort by this government is not really worth mentioning but it should be done in some other way but unfortunately no one has tried it in reality yet, which is what it is, i.e. We had a SDP that tried once in 2014 and we knew how it ended unfortunately in 2015 where all the local self-government, for example, ran out of large numbers, i.e. A great amount of income, and they've never been compensated for it, and they've claimed they will, that they will be. Unfortunately, they're gone, okay... They're gone, they've made up for the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19784	The next replica is Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19785	Dear fellow, we are aware that under these conditions of the crown crisis, it has been difficult to plan anything in the long term, mainly budgets, whether it is a budget at national level, at regional or local level. Of course, the priority of the state is to preserve the health of its inhabitants, its citizens, but also to preserve the economy as a fundamental prerequisite for further development of opportunities. Balanced precisely by this, balanced tax discharge, both the economies and the inhabitants, will now contribute to this main objective, and this is what I have mentioned, the preservation and the economy and the preservation of health, that is to try to balance it as best as possible, right. Of course, this will leave a mark on the budgets or units of local self-government, but this is exactly one even discharge. In particular, it contributes and ensures through this fund or fiscal balancing to overcome this crisis and at the level of local self-government. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19786	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19787	Thank you, dear colleague Shashin. It's clear what you wanted to say through your own replica, it's that here's the fifth time really the Ministry of Finance, what I said at the beginning, at the end of the year, it's projecting the next one, and it's acting in accordance with what the law says and what they've taken over as a commitment, and it's not something that we have to hide and say or what it says here you're doing, so you're doing better, so there's not so many employees as to be fired, etc., I think we're just fighting the arguments that are just doing what we're about to do, and it's that they're hairing to be more convincing and to be more popular, and to be able to have some sense of their discussions. What's hard to accept here when it comes to tax cuts? Well, I guess we should accept that. But we can see that there are also those who don't want it for their citizens and, of course, they're going to go to any election and the next one in five months. Next year and the budgets have also shown that what the Minister of Finance is saying in this year has its own realization in all local budgets. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19788	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19789	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Since this is the second reading of tax reform, most of what was to be said with the adoption of these 5 laws or 4 when we discussed them in the first round we said there is no need to repeat now, so more so than Mrs. Peric expressed on behalf of the club our club's position on tax reform. I want to make a special exception, that's three things I'd single out here through this amendment to the law. The first thing I want to say, which is that by this law, these laws, first of all, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax on Income, there is an increase in the salaries of our fellow citizens. And I would like to say that out of the 2 million and 700,000 taxpayers of income tax, a million and 900 of them are now exempt from paying income tax, given that the increased personal deduction from 2.600 kuna to 4,000 kuna and a large part of our fellow citizens, those with smaller incomes are not covered by any of these rates or obligations arising from the implementation of the Income Tax Act. What is important to say is that, with this fifth round of tax reform in relative terms, at the relatively high rate of war, these changes have increased with our personal deductions in Croatia. They grew somewhere around 1,000 kunas through when the data from 2016 and today, or when this law is implemented, and we who are parliamentary representatives who have more significant incomes can best know how much in this period there has been a rise in salaries of state officials. First of all, I would like to say that the basis for calculating the salaries of government officials did not change in the mandate of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, as in the mandate of 13 governments, so this government passed, and because of this, it should not, in the end, be pointed out, but I point out this because in the meantime, all the employees who were the employer of the state were growing salaries about 18% with the basis of the increase in the base. And it's good that it's also good that we go to further increases in these small, smaller salaries in the Republic of Croatia. One of those pay raise steps is certainly this one, and this change. The second thing I wanted to point out is that by reducing the rate of income tax, the rate of income tax is reduced, which is actually the income of the unit of local self-government, this law makes the change in the rate of compensation in such a way that the share rate is, therefore, part of the income tax that has so far been 60% rises to 74%, and on the other hand, that the state is aware that a number of local self-government units need to intervene with the funds that intervention through the solidarity fund is happening from other revenues of the state budget. And it is important to mention this because of units of local self-government that could not be transferred to the government to increase salaries by cutting income taxes on the budget of the local self-government unit rather than by means of the state budget. And the third thing I wanted specifically pointed out concerns 90% of employers in Croatia. Someone says 93%, but that 90% of employers are very many. They support this law with two measures that need to be highlighted and particularly highlighted. The first measure is the one that speaks of their profit tax rate being reduced from 12 to 10%. When this government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership, the rate was twice as high and was 20%. In the meantime, the amendments to the law have reduced that rate by 20% by 93%, 90% of employers in Croatia to 10%, which means that we have left them a significant part of the funds that are not taxed because the profits for further investments, the increase in wages, etc., have been left to them and these are their trade assets. And the other thing that is good, especially in these times of crisis conditioned by the pandemic of the coronary virus, is that it raises the threshold to 15 million kuna for all those employers whose incomes are up to 15 million kuna that VAT pays at the expense of their invoices and thus clearly made it easier for them to operate. In that sense, I will certainly support this tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19790	We have a few replicas. First respected representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19791	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bačić, today we have heard from some MPs that this reform when we talk about the incomes of local self-government units is going to be, say, positive zero. Therefore, the part that decreases when we talk about tax rates in the Income Tax Act or the JLS Finance Act where distribution increases will ultimately lead to nothing. However, it is forgotten that the state is taking over the 17% that was once in the division that it will now take over from itself and will belong to the local unit. So I'd like to ask you this particular comment, will the local self-government units remain?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19792	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19793	I thank my colleague Begonja, I believe that we will all be here at the HDZ Representatives' Club in fact among you a very large number of mayors and mayors, and if anyone knows the problem how and how your budgets are being filled, how much this reform will have an impact on the budget, then you know that because you are here, it seems to me that 12 or 13 leaders of the local self-government units. It is important for you, too, because of the functioning and your unit of local self-government, that the tax reform that needs to be commended for it means an increase in wages in Croatia so that the state does not reduce your income by increasing these salaries. And in that sense, I support, we support this position so as not to reduce the incomes of the local self-government unit increases the share of local self-government units in the allocation of funds by, from income tax. Not only local units, but also regional self-government and county units will be compensated by this law, not to mention the solidarity fund the 17% to be allocated from the state budget. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19794	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19795	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have pointed out the important things that aim to relieve taxation, you have certainly mentioned reducing tax burdens and increasing the income available to our citizens who increase the possibility of higher consumption and household tomorrow, but also contributing to a stronger economy. What you also pointed out is that this law changes regarding the proposal of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which is that it aims to achieve a reduction of the income of these areas of local self-government, county and that the share of the distribution in income tax for cities increases from 60 what we heard earlier to 74%, for the counties from 17 to 20, but what I somehow can't figure out so can you explain to me why the opposition is against constantly raising these revenues and why it is against such a positive change that strengthens [[Intruder: Time.]] and citizens and entrepreneurship. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19796	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Baricevic, with regard to funds relating to units of local self-government, which the units of local and regional self-government therefore and county income from income tax, is important to point out that these changes in the law will result in an increase in wages, while no reduction in the income of units of local or regional self-government will occur. And in this it is a message that the state from the funds that otherwise were to this reform of the state budget in a certain part, and that part of 17% of the total amount of income tax will now have to allocate the state in order to balance and to help those parts of Croatia where certain revenues are not realised. And that's a good message. I wouldn't say at first that the opposition, the opposition might be against this in the debates, and whether it will be against the reform will we see on Friday When we vote. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19798	The next replica is the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19799	Well, here's what you said in your statement that this tax reform is a downsizing of profit taxes here to invest. So do you have any indicators or any analysis that would confirm that in 5 of these reformist cycles, this is now the fifth really raised some investment, and I'm going to warn you, so what I said and in the individual debate that the CNB has issued a new report that says that the wealth of the richest has increased by one, by three, by 11 billion kuna, means 1% of the richest hold 1/4 of all, all the savings in banks, which would allow us to conclude that the richest tax reforms have been favoured for them to accumulate. And so anyway in the crown crisis no one invests it's the logic of saving in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19800	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Peovic, you've finished mentioning logic. Well, if you mention the logic, it doesn't seem logical to you that, through 5 rounds of tax reform in Croatia, thanks to one part, I won't tell the biggest, but by much of the tax changes made by Croatia, then friendly with the entrepreneur comes to investment, there is an increase in GDP, and you, and I especially want to tell you that there is an increase in the number of employees in Croatia. Today, watch out today, after, or during this large pandemic of the coronary virus is more employees and insurance than in February when the pandemic began. I thought you'd be commending it if it was your employee's interest in how you advocate it, that you'd commend it and commend it. such HDZ efforts to preserve jobs and to preserve them in this crisis, and thus, to a large extent, tax reform. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19802	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19803	Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished ministers together with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, most of all a nice greeting to all and in 2021 is definitely a year that will be challenging not only for the Republic of Croatia but also for the whole EU and the world and for the Covid crisis, but also because of the crisis that will be caused by Covid itself, and it will spill over and already spill over into the economy. And what I would like to stress in the introduction to this debate on our tax reform is that much more developed countries, and even countries that have much more neo-liberal governments than we do, recognize that certain models of liberal capitalism, neoliberal capitalism, have been spent and that much must change so that this crisis does not bring new inequalities, so that it does not again bring a new situation, as always in crises to make richer and poorer, because it is definitely that precisely movements in the economy and all that Covid has brought with it significantly contribute to the sad and certain phenomena of extremism. We have continued the path of tax reforms that we have in our 30 years in the Republic of Croatia, where unfortunately we are going to go again in the direction that we Assembly representatives will have cca 1,000 kuna higher salaries, and that our secretaries, cleaning women in the assembly so that all those working people blue corners will have bigger salaries maybe 50, 100 kuna and we'll say it's great because everybody's wages are growing. It is definitely good to reduce the pressing state through taxes, but it is certain that we could find a model and rates to get more of those who are in a worse situation today and get less richer. We could also find a model because the Trum who was the leader of the right world and the right economic thinking stopped on the profit tax 21%, we've now gone beyond that and I'm asking myself a question in which direction and how we think about taxing capital, wealth because that's something the developed world is resorting to today. Much more developed countries were the first things to do with the crown in the direction of taxation of wealth and wealth. Unfortunately, we're not going in that direction, and I'm afraid we're being concrete, that indeed those at the top are going to get better again, and those others who survive will talk. As for the financing of local self-government units, and I must say that, with Boris Lalovca, Minister Maric is definitely one of the better finance ministers we have had, we are entering a new round of tax reforms, and again, in these tax reforms, we are solely playing with those taxes that are income units of local self-government. We rarely came to the state saying here we are now giving up and that, reducing that and that because it is our income. So this time when we talk about income tax, I can talk a lot about it from the corner of the town of Koprivnica even though I have to say that this may be the first reform where the town of Koprivnica will stay at zero or be in a mild plus, so we will not be punished because only for comparison in 2008 was the last one before a crisis year, and it was weaker economically in the town of Koprivnica than in 2019. With respect to tax reforms and balancing funds, we've got 17 million kunas less. There has been a debate here today on the management of cities, Koprivnica is a positive example because all these years we have no interest, original income or share of the city's public service salaries are in our share of original incomes at about 8.9%, so we know how to operate with funds, but so far we have always been punished for our development. And there's been a lot of debate here today about the Compensation Fund, but what I have to say is that in my opinion he proved to be a half-department, he did help some municipalities and cities attract European funds more significantly, but we also have to admit that some of the units that have long come to pay 50, 60% of the original incomes thanks to someone dropping funds from all of us, made it possible for them to say that we're close to 20% should not be abolished. What is my final conclusion that all these tax reforms, all these tax debates, will never contribute to the fact that we can create a more equal society, that we can say that we have really reduced the press on our entrepreneurs so long as we are not ready to admit under A that we have to reduce public administration, and that is definitely the problem because we would not so much defend the VAT rate that this is not our problem and B to admit that we have too many units of local and regional self-government so too many municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19804	Thank you. Next individual debate. And there's one replica, the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You were actually talking about changes in tax rates or how much consumption will ultimately remain for Croatian citizens. Here's the latest analysis of HGK, which analyzed how much citizens will spend in December, generally says that it spends the most from 100 to 500 kuna, that the part that the middle class of citizens spends. What we have suggested is that this part of the easy part be provided to Croatian citizens, one who has 2, 3, 4,000 kuna, which will earn from tax savings goes into savings. So just once again I ask your opinion on that part is that we all want to stimulate consumption and we think that the model for a medium layer of 500 kuna is actually the best model that ultimately shows HKG data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19806	So according to my argument, I absolutely agree with you because it's clear who the jam is, that someone who today has 5,000 kunas of salary spends up to 1 to 1 probably until the last June, will now have 5,050 kuna and will spend all those 5,050 kunas. Whoever has 15, 20, 30,000 kuna will, of course, transfer all these larger funds into savings, it is certain that it will not go into greater consumption because he already has enough to spend and what a little bit breaks into the public scene is still growing in this crisis. So there's still money in the rich, and it turns out that we're still protecting them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19807	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19808	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Well, it was in this package of tax laws that you could see the constructiveity and correctness of the opposition at least when it comes to the Club of the Centre and GLAS. We welcomed the tax discharge, in itself it is not disputed, we opposed that the lack of unit income of local self-government is compensated by additional expenditure from the state budget, we are therefore opposed to compensatory measures and we are still standing there. I will not repeat what we have already pointed out during the debate and we continue to stand by that tax discharge is good, but it is not enough, we need much more courageous and determined measures. It was necessary to use this situation to eliminate all those unnecessary parafiscal inducements and then to design a different model of the existence and functioning of individual systems such as HGK, HOK, and the entire system of tourist communities. As you know, we've advocated the abolition of these parafiscal duties. But what we point to is that tax discharge is only one leg of a tripod, and that's the foot with such tax reforms, and the other two branches or two legs would be a system of control for those who spend budgets and the most important spending side. We think that all three legs of this system are somehow weak, flimsy, and it could happen that we, as a state, our entrepreneurs and our citizens from this chair, simply rot because we didn't take what was to be done. In addition to removing unnecessary parafiscal duties, we pointed out in this package of tax laws that we needed serious reform of the public system, that we needed decentralisation of the word I pointed out in free speech. And what would that mean? This would really mean reshaping our territorial structure, so we don't need 20 counties, we need regions. The regions are referred to in the new National Development Strategy, however, there is no implementation. When are we gonna start this process if we're not ready to talk about it now? We don't need 555 cities and municipalities and there we need to move into some form of different fusion of our units of local self-government, so without us changing the territorial system, it won't be possible to carry out a more significant tax discharge and that's one of the problems. And when we talk about this third leg, when we talk about the system of those who decide to spend budgets here, I don't just think about the functionality of the judiciary that obviously has serious problems, I was talking about it yesterday. I'm talking about those other two concepts that are also full of national strategies, which are digitization and depoliticalization. Without any tax system its effects will be left out regardless of how well Minister Maric agreed on new tax rates. What do I mean by digitization? Full fiscal transparency. Therefore, the introduction of a system as already provided by some units of local and regional self-government so that payment and payment can be monitored, so all the revenue side and all the expenditure side of each individual public body. So, all the ministries, the whole state, the HABOR, whatever you want. Therefore, anything financed by public money must be subject to effective, transparent public control. From the information level, it is possible to introduce this literally already today, only political will is needed, and it is obvious that there is no political will. It is also one of the strongest anti-corruption measures I also advocate in my own draft anti-corruption strategy. Digitalisation also means transforming the work of individual state bodies. Yesterday I mentioned a few criticisms at the expense of the State Attorney's Council. We know that two years ago an electronic system of property cards was introduced by judges and state lawyers, but they are still not public. Digitalisation would also mean that a whole series of different databases, different state bodies connect each other, that they can communicate with each other, there is no such thing as that either. And what does depoliticization mean? Depolitisation means avoiding political deployment of key people into individual state bodies That's what I was talking about yesterday on the list of legal persons of particular interest. [[Intruder: Time.]] This would mean a comprehensive tax reform. actually bring the complete system into order. [[- Intruder. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19809	You have several replicas, please hold. First respected representative Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I absolutely agree with your debate because today we all agreed that Minister Maric is really trying. One of the few ministers we've been here for five years is trying to make changes, etc., unfortunately only his colleagues are doing nothing. We haven't heard in 5 years about any reform of the local administration, we haven't seen in reducing the expenditure from his colleagues, not from him, so on the side of the judiciary we haven't seen at all the merger agencies, they've only brought them together normably the rest of them, the same number of employees remain the same inefficientness and I absolutely agree that we can't just tax changes where they only actually push Minister Maric to actually make reforms in this context, but his colleagues do not follow his pace and therefore unfortunately we don't have the full impact of these tax reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19811	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19812	Thank you, that's why I said that tax reform is one of the three-legged rags, and as far as these other two are concerned, so here I think the debate that will follow when we talk about a new national development strategy is a good opportunity for certain clubs to be heard about whether or not we are going towards a territorial reconstruction, whether or not we are to redefine the role of power, the competence of regulatory bodies, and whether we are a number of them who are not even aware that they exist simply and we do not need us to do our job or not to know what their job is. If we agree on that on the one hand to the opposition, on the other hand ruling because it is also in their interest to finally move forward in the country, I think this assembly will fulfill that role that citizens expect of us independently of who they voted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19813	Next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19814	Dear MPs, you mentioned digitizing and connecting databases at state level. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that there are.../incomprehensible/... registers that define all the data found in individual stages and how these several bases that exist at the state level should be communicated to all citizens. It's one thing, I don't know if you're familiar with it if you're not here, it's information. However, it is that this.../incomprehensible... registry does not work and these systems do not communicate with one another. The other thing you mentioned and I'd like you to comment on is local self-government, it's that you said that too many units of local self-government on the one hand, you said that we should increase the transparency of the work of local self-government. How to increase the transparency of work, by showing the data, so that we can all see how these local self-governments work, to see public procurement data to see the exact budget. However, in order for this to be unique, we need to have one unique system to show it, and that still does. It doesn't exist. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19815	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19816	This second question is something that we can address in the context of a new strategy to combat corruption. And I'm against every unit having its own transparent system of payments and payments, because it's non-transparent, it doesn't benefit users who will review it and simply cost a lot. And as for networking the databases, here I am as chairman of the Committee on Conflict of Interest directly involved in the process of connecting the database, I know what it looks like and what results can be achieved. There is no problem in the information tools and algorithms they develop at that time, the problem is in the Croatian Parliament which does not adopt implementing regulations that would define what is done with the result obtained. The problem is precisely this moment that, for example, the same system exists for the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, which no longer wants to be published in public electronic property cards. This is a problem, so a lack of will here in the Croatian Parliament, not in information tools.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19817	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19818	Dear MPs, you have mentioned several times the need to abolish units of local self-government. I wonder if you really believe that the abolition of local self-government units would contribute to the development of these areas that we know and now one of the most underdeveloped? Are you aware of how you live today in Baranja Petrova Selo, Torians, Kopacheva or anywhere? Are you aware that all associations, everything, all practically life is based on these units of local self-government, that they are literally holders of the life and development of that area, that end and indeed they last for some 27 years, the fact is that the number of inhabitants in those units has decreased, but it is also a fact that if they abolished those units of local self-government it would be the last nail in the coffin in those areas that would literally become extinct. Please come there once in those areas and you'll see how people live, how they live with these municipalities, and with those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19819	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19820	For two reasons I base my position, one opinion is the relevant profession Koprić, Djulabić and various others, opinions and reports of various agencies that have actually dealt with the research of our local self-government, scientists, and also direct knowledge of what I had the opportunity to see when I was dealing with certain cases. So, don't think that we want to erase people's local identity or their area, we want to reorganize the management system in a way that serves citizens, not political elites. You're asking me if the units will live better, or their residents, that they will. Even in the new strategy prepared by your government, it writes nicely, which is why small fragmented units do not have the implementing capacity to write a good project for the wider area and withdraw funds from European funds. So management is the goal, not to remove someone's local identity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19821	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19822	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with their co-workers. The fifth round of tax reforms in this covid crisis that has exposed all the bad policies towards the Croatian people is especially when we have to talk then we have to talk about those richest who are not relieved, these are banks, I repeat, ministers 4 billion kuna benefits from fees and fees, not interest, for those who listen not to interest, but 500 fees and commissions 500. 4 billion kuna a year and not reinvested in Croatia means taxes now 5 billion have jumped, no praise. When I talked about it a few years ago, then here's a representative. The governor of the falsified CNB Vujčić is saying it is not so, so we... with the release of these 500-dollar fees and commissions, but I think the banks should tax a lot more there is their profit regularly every year must 4 billion kuna from our citizens' pockets, so count how many years it is, so you will see how much less money in the Republic of Croatia is not reinvested but is invested in countries where their mothers banks and there our young ones go to work with that money being taken in Croatia. And that's why the result is crucial when we talk about tax reform, and I'm interested in the minister's how much money this year has been from foreign transfers from our emigrants in GDP. Last year, there were 5% of those who left because of the bad policies and then they send money to their families, that's about 5% on the bank's account about 20 billion, and I'm interested in the projection of how many there were in this year, and how many are in next year. So much for political action and tax discharge, so much for these things we're talking about. Of course, every discharge is good, but the result of Croatian policies towards Croatian citizens is visible to entrepreneurs, visible in results. 5% of the BPD of the evicted Croats from the people who moved out. For what? Why don't we have a farm? Because of the tax and the state that rides over them because of the county's purpose, because of poor health, because we don't have kindergartens in 40% of local self-government. We need to unburden and find a model that these poorest of those 4 billion that they invest in the Republic of Croatia. The same thing is with teleopers, the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia, even in the fifth month they were forgiven for frequency fees. It did not reduce our citizens' prices for teleoperate services, but 50% fell by decision in the 5th month, in the 7th, they can't be safe but it's reduced and there are problems, there are problems. There's a lot of money being sucked out. So we have a problem when we talk about these tax-respected ministers, just wind power plants that made problems, and our pensioners don't now have the opportunity to buy money I've given them an amendment to buy a DVB T2 receiver so they can watch TV, and because of the crown crisis, it's their only window in the world. But 20 million kunas to subsidize the purchase of new receivers now imposed on them at the most difficult moment, are mostly our unemployed, especially pensioners because they are the most endangered in the covid crisis. I can't buy a receiver, I don't know if you can figure it out, and the banks only get four billion kunas through fees and commissions. That's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. However, I hope that you will change your mind and your policies, as Branko Bačić was three days ago one Branko Bačić until yesterday, is now the second Branko Bačić. Nikki's day is nonsense, populistism, the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, ZERP is not today, today it's a national interest. And I agree with him, but for five years I have warned here, I have spoken, and you insist that it is not so, until the Italian rides you nothing, nothing, that you are upon a sigh, upon a sigh like horses when they cast the reins and ride it so that you do not accidentally go left or right. As you are told... before Sanader, Karamarko, Kosorica, Plenkovic it is your Plenkovic... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19823	Time. You have one replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19824	Thank you. A fellow Bull. So it's quite clear and that story sort of that that we don't know is destructive, the last fifth I told my colleagues from HDZ every law that would be on the agenda we supported. We support when they make a good proposal and there are no problems. We don't have a problem saying it's a good thing. And five years of what you said here we assure them of one thing and now yesterday I see Branka Bačića in a noble manner he announces the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, and I played him a video here saying that it is harmful, useless, that Croatia has no use for it. And this shows who is actually the one who leads politics in a way that actually makes decisions as they are told, I don't know either from the HDZ centre or from Brussels or I don't know where, and who's fighting for Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19825	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19826	I agree with my colleague, Grmoy. This strange beak of ZERP, who was driven by the Seks owl together at the time with Sanader and the whole crew when it was arrested, located, transferred by Croatian generals to court European officials and Carly del Ponte was suddenly not good, and we were all the time saying it was our right, international right. We also claim that we must protect our poorest entrepreneurs, if Slovenia has brought in a covid crisis a moratorium on loans and interest, which is why it would not be brought by the Croatian Government if the banks are solvent, annually 4 billion kuna only on fees and interest are taken. And for a year, it means nothing to forgive, just a year moratorium on interest and loans. That's not what they want. What are the reasons I'm not going to get into that. Also about self-sufficiency, a colleague of Shimpraga spoke to me earlier as a parishioner who has good merits with HDZ because of this situation right now, self-sufficient when I was saying that she wasn't telling me all kinds of names called me, that the European market, we're the market we're safe. We're not sure, but we'll be hungry if we keep this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19827	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19828	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Here is again quite briefly, quite concretely, as I promised on the proposed amendment to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. As we know, income tax is divided into a way that 60% of the current law 60% of that income tax belongs to the city or the municipality, 17% of the county, 6% goes to decentralised functions such as education, health care, social care and fire department, and 17% goes to the Compensation Fund. Now that it decided to cut income tax, when this tax revenue de facto was reduced by 1/6 it was worth making adequate compensation. The Ministry or Government as a Proposer has made sense, it will say that the central budget under this proposal is intended to take over the function or function of balancing, and that these 17% points that have so far gone to the Compensation Fund are somehow adequately proportional, according to the proportionality between the city and the county, the city and the municipality and the county to deprive them in some way or to compensate them. It was done quite precisely and quite correctly if there was no trimming in mind, it was made quite correct and precise to round it to an integer for all those cities and municipalities where the trimming was zero. When, however, the cut is present, and especially where the cut is as large as that. in large centres in large regional centres where the cut is 15% or in Osijek where 13% is therefore 15% in Split and Rijeka seems to me, 13% where the tax is large should be kept in mind that the tax is exclusively the income of local self-government, so city or municipality. In other words, if we lose to tax revenues, everyone loses to proportionality, however, when less taxes are charged then a less corresponding cut is charged, and the total loss of the unpaid cut falls to the city's burden, or to the municipality. In this regard, we believe that we should actually adjust this proposal of the Government which currently stands so that from the current 60% share of the city or municipality to 74 and the share of the county from 17 to 20, we think it would be more appropriate to raise the share of the city or municipalities from 60 to 75, and the share of the county from 17 to 19. It seems to be a small change, it seems to be one percentage point that can be lived on both one side and the other, but we think it's not irrelevant, because before some rough estimates suggest that it may be an amount of 80 or 90 million kuna at an annual level, and so here we are talking about whether these 80 or 90 million kunas at an annual level will belong to cities and municipalities or counties. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment, we propose a correction to this amendment to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. And lastly, I'm just going to say one more thing, so that's one inaccuracy that doesn't matter right now, but when you talk about it, the opportunity is to maybe fix it in art. 5. The law on the financing of local and regional self-government was the sum of these percentages and remained 100, now 60% of the city, 17% of the county and 6% of the decentralised functions, 17% of the balancing fund, is proposed differently in addition to 100. On the other hand, the last paragraph of that Article 5 states that out of the total tax collected on income, 1% is therefore entitled to 1% of the total tax collected, the Tax Administration has a cost, registration, collection, etc. and now may actually be an opportunity if the Government itself is to make an amendment to mail this article and that this 1 percentage point that probably rightly belongs to the IRS so to enter, to enter the sum that it will total 100. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19829	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19830	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, so all the changes we've seen these years continue to have not made our citizens' lives better. Especially those citizens with a minimum wage. The cost of living has not been reduced, nor has competitiveness been increased to the economy. As long as we have higher fuel prices, higher toll prices, as long as we have more prices for other energy and utility than other developed EU countries, our citizen cannot live with dignity and the economy worker can work. All the time it's said and low wages, trade unions look at it in one way, and it's true because in Croatia we have a case of European prices and Croatian wages that simply chokes and destroys us. This means that citizens and businessmen have the same problem and I don't understand why the union and the HUP together don't come up with that problem, offer a solution because in this way the government actually uses that saying, argue and rule. Without reducing VAT, but not cosmetics, there are also reductions and partial suspensions of excise duties on energy, a reduction in the price of tolls with the introduction of vignette, as well as a reduction in the prices of municipal water services and others, as well as the elimination of the additional costs we see in our utility bills, electricity and others, we have no progress in Croatia. Only reducing the cost of life and work can contribute to a better standard and a decent life for citizens, as well as to the development and competitiveness of the economy. This requires restructuring of state and local administrations by reducing costs in all segments. Also, controlling and reducing costs in state and local companies providing services to citizens and the economy which should result in lower prices of their services, introducing greater control and limiting energy prices and other costs of life and work should be the most important objective of the government. Unfortunately, this has not been done in a similar way for years, leading all to enormous costs in all segments, and thus to overruns against citizens and the economy. As an example, I can quote Petrochemy Kutina, who has been a loser for years, and when in 2018, with the help of the state in taking over some of its debts and recapitalisations, she gave in to PPD and INI on one occasion Petrochemy becomes profitable. If the government had controlled and limited prices, therefore, no big margin should be allowed for the energy salesmen, and the cost is the highest cost in Petrochemia to take over Petrochemia and are now working with profit. These changes I am talking about would benefit the public and the economy because this would allow the decent lives of all citizens, especially those with the lowest incomes and repeat the competitiveness of the economy. The VAT rate of 20% is highest in Europe, should be introduced tax rates of 20%, 10%, 5% and 0%, 0% for basic food supplies. The current VAT taxation system is based on the administration of a general VAT rate of 25% and 2 reduced rates of 5% and 13%. A threshold of 300,000 kuna which includes the value of taxable supplies of goods or services in the previous or current calendar year shall apply to the registration in the register of VAT debtors. I note that non-recognition of deductions, 100% pre-taxes are harmful to the economy and makes the economy uncompetitive. Before any aid is granted to the bank through the write-off of the claim, the problem of Swiss and other credits should be resolved, on a voluntary basis, in all credit agreements and others, because only then will the real debt-to-bank situation be seen. It is also necessary to resolve infringements because none of these banks agreed with consumers by 1 April 2014 at the latest a fixed share of interest variable parameters and interest-change periods. It is all types of credit, so it is also EUR and kuna and CHF loans. For this violation of indemnity under the law, a fine of 80 to 200,000 kuna for the bank is foreseen for each individual offence and from 10,000 to 50,000 kuna for the members of the bank management who were the same on 1 April 2014. And we expect, in conclusion, that the application of this proposal for a package of laws will de-simulate credit institutions in the sale of credit ratings to demand-purchasing agencies or that credit institutions will be motivated by the final write-down of debt as much as possible to facilitate the position of debtors, citizens and entrepreneurs. The improvement of the credit position of the debtor affects the redevelopment of the investment of entrepreneurs and the increase of personal consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19831	Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19832	Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, being the country's ruling option is a privilege, but also a commitment. The government is already 5 years old. So 5 years to start solving the extremely complicated tax system that we have in Croatia. The problem of our country is not only the level of the share that taxes and parafiscal burdens have in GDP but the number of those, and what we have is the forest of regulations, taxes and parafiscal burdens. The emphasis should be placed, not only on tax cuts, but also on the lifting of burdens on the economy. One of the priorities should be to remove at least some of the hundreds of parafiscal burdens, especially if he knew that all parafiscal impositions annually cost only nine billion kunas. It is precisely where we should go to discharge, not only financially but also considered that by abolishing the burden, we relieve economic operators who spend a good deal of time on the complications resulting from the very existence of these duties. The complexity of our system confirms that in the state we have 556 units of local self-government, 556 cities and municipalities and each of these municipalities and cities determines the size of the cuts, income tax for their citizens, which means that Croatia, a country of 4 million inhabitants, has 556 income tax systems. So, we did everything to make it complicatedly tax and every other system and then we wonder why the country isn't progressing, why our citizens don't have a better standard, why after Germany and Ireland the citizens go after us for a better life and for the countries that were behind us until yesterday. Maybe to understand the value, simplicity and tax and any other system, that would be our key turn. We always have to remember that the more complicated a system is, the more pressure it is to bypass it. Of course, not everyone has that option. This creates problems, from tax evasion, grey economy and impact trading, as well as many others. The good thing about tax cuts is that the state and local authorities remain less money, whether it is less money for negative phenomena, such as corruption, or simply less money for the ruling option to use that citizen's money to bribe them, and to ensure survival in the next election and thus cyclically from election to election. Also, because of the crisis caused by the coronary virus, the economy has fallen and the social situation of our citizens has deteriorated. Already in the spring, many of them met with lower incomes. Did they drop the cost of their lives? Unfortunately, we're all familiar with the answer that they're not. For this reason, I would particularly stress the need to raise salaries for the widest circle of citizens through an increase in the non-taxable part of income tax. That measure would raise people's standards. Unfortunately, this government won't do it. Such changes would raise the revenues of hundreds of thousands of Croatian families, which is the strongest weapon for the demographic recovery of our country. These changes in income tax which will go in favour of those who are more wealthy could result in an increase in prices, and again burden our most vulnerable but also weaken the middle class, which is the basis of every society. Unfortunately, the tax press, the complicated tax and legal system, will continue to burden our economy. So I would underline the importance of the simplicity of every system, and so would the tax system. The simpler the system, the less burdened the economy, not only financially, but economic operators can also do their jobs, rather than spend a good part of their time on fulfilling their obligations to the state. These bill proposals won't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19833	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19834	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would now refer to all three tax-related laws, meaning VAT tax, profit, income tax. I would like to point out and draw attention to both the legislator and anyone who is not clear what the opposition is discussing today, as well as the Croatian public, that the provisions for these laws are actually contradictory with the alleged efforts that the minister pointed out. The first fact is that the purpose of the debate today was asked about tax laws, after a vote of 2021 on which the opposition had 300 and some amendments, and we know that the government accepted only 3 amendments. Furthermore, when we talk about value added tax, we have already heard that we have a whole range of companies dealing with electronic business, from social networks, Facebook, Twitter, Tick-Tok, Instagram, and that I do not list further, from various Internet intermediaries and their online business entities that make money on the Croatian internet market, and the government has not proposed a model by which they would pay VAT in Croatia. What does that mean? This means that we actually leave them, or forgive millions of euros and do nothing about it, and at the same time, the government has not found it appropriate to release VAT products for the basic needs of life and thus help our citizens. As for the tax, or the Income Tax Act, it is unfortunately written in a way that suits those with the highest salaries, while the government claims that it wants to help the poorest. We heard about the proposal, about the changed tax rates, and I would add a changed personal deduction that would vary depending on the level of pay, and automatically those with higher salaries would pay even higher taxes. The proposal is actually simple, the application is even simpler, and the goal is to carry the burden of the crisis on their backs the most powerful, the richest and those with the highest wages. When we talk about income tax, there is, it is defined in a way that an entrepreneur simply does not pay to be employed in his business and to pay personal income. This is also massively used by companies without employees at the level of the year to earn about 26 billion kuna, and then their profits are taxed at a rate of 10%. So this law does not help the poorest and the most needy, but also those most powerful. I hope that the Proposer will accept amendments that would correct these illogicalities and thus help the most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19835	We've completed our individual debates. In fact, the final debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Anja Shimpraga.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19836	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act proposes to reduce the tax rates applied then in taxing income from income tax, which will affect the very revenues of municipalities, cities and counties. The share of income tax resources that is increasing is a kind of compensation for lost municipal assets due to changes in tax rates. By implementing this Act amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, there is a redistribution of the share of income tax between those mentioned. This law changes the share of income tax distribution as follows, increases the share of income tax for municipalities from 60% to 74%, counties from 17% to 20% and 6% for decentralised functions. So we see that from this income tax division there is no room for a 17% share for fiscal balancing, and now it will be paid as proposed from the state budget. In the end, the budget will be defined in the same amount, but in the long run, this proposal reduces the original income of municipalities, reduces the potential of debt and project financing, as well as the questionable sustainability of municipalities and even regional development, demographic and economically devastationous areas anyway. In this sense, the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club will submit an amendment that will not violate the statistics of this law, and if the government accepts it, we would like to make a commitment to take into account and seriously consider the potential negative consequences of applying the law to the group of units of local and regional self-government, local self-government that is located in the first and second total according to the value of the development index and will propose the moderations to mitigate these consequences. We know that the ministry and Minister Maric are doing a determined job and that is why we believe they will find the best possible way to ensure that such municipalities have human capacities and the implementation of development projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19837	The next final debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19838	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, the second reading of this fifth round of tax reform has not brought any major changes compared to the first reading. I am personally sorry that the proposal for certain opposition clubs is not respected, I am referring to the Homeland Movement and to my colleague Lerotic from the IDS regarding the abolition of monthly tax on profits which are a significant blow to liquidity mainly micro and small entrepreneurs, and in this crisis we are in, it is not insignificant. Today we also received an emergency procedure of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government because income tax is changing, so it's kind of logical, but it would be even more logical if we had received a law that would regulate our territorial structure as it is. This fifth round brings certain positive things, it should be stressed, but also as regards the financing of local self-government units, I think it would be better if we had discussed it together with a law that would finally reduce that excessive number of local self-government units. And somehow here I must always ask myself what should be the objective of every country's fiscal policy, and in all the textbooks, we will find that we should achieve economic growth with high employment and low inflation and whenever we discuss fiscal policy taxes, it would be good for us as Parliamentarians to ask ourselves whether these measures are going in this direction, whether we are going to achieve economic growth based on these measures or not. I'm going to look back a little bit only on local self-government units, but my colleagues' instructions are that the share of all income tax revenues is 57%, and in those 57% income tax and tax tax, which is a de facto tax of 87%. Which means it's their main source of income. It will be difficult for us to deal with now and these changes, and without these large funds that the Ministry of Finance has foreseen in the budget for next year, and in the amount of 2 billion kuna, this fiscal capacity and all the needs of local self-government units are somehow met. Even 555 municipalities and cities of what? 86% have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants and account for only 36% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. It's hard for a richer state than us to finance all that together. Territorial reconstruction is not something that is usually imposed before the elections, and after no one, it is simply a Croatian necessity because it becomes definitely unsustainable. Otherwise, it should be stressed that the number of these units has continued to grow and mainly in cities, and I will only briefly look back at the elimination of the share of fiscal balancing. I remind you that on 26.10. the mayor of the City of Zagreb asked that 900 million kuna remain in the settlement fund in the city register. Is this a sign and this provision means that we are abolishing this stake in light of the upcoming local elections, announcements and some coalitions, and is Milan Bandic still a reliable partner in the City of Zagreb? Here, you might want to ask yourself the same question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19839	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, distinguished representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19840	... Croatian public, thank you. [[Specially enabled.]] Here we will face again, and we have already discussed this with Mr. Minister and Vice President on the subject of taxing disproportionately established property benefits. In this tax reform she was caught and affected, she took the first step in my opinion, in our view, with 54% of the current tax, now the proposal to tax 60% of that property that is disproportionate in every citizen of the potential offender compared to his income. And this is, in principle, an extremely large step in the fight against many types of illegality, in some countries in Italy, in America quite certainly, even in the fight against organised crime, corruption or serious forms of crime, because after death, after the brutal murder of anti-mafia judge Falcone in Italy and the Italian public, and the world criminal legal elite has come to the conclusion that the fight against the mafia is the most effective if you actually focus it on the use of acquired criminal acts to demote them in this way. And there was the Italian mob deeply regretted by those who repented among other things, we should never have killed Judge Falcone because he strangled us dead by the neck and destroyed us greatly now that these actions are effective both in Italy and elsewhere, including in Europe, and among other things we are part of these positive systems in Croatia thanks to just one such approach of confiscation of benefits obtained by criminal acts. Now, this is our constitutional principle, it's the principle of our criminal right that crime must not be paid, that the benefit must be taken away, for example in the USKOK last year, as we had the opportunity to read from the 829 persons's report, our courts at the request of the county and state attorneys and municipal about 123 million kunas with the fact that it remained, it was a benefit acquired by the criminal, with the rest of this of 69 people the court has abolished because the measures went beyond 2 years those freezing measures or where they traced criminally acquired property, but the process did not end in 2 years with the prosecution of even 134 million kunas have been dropped and again those citizens accused in criminal proceedings were able to dispose of them. The point is this introduction, Mr. and Director, is that there are fundamental differences in the access of USKOK and the court because the burden of evidence of criminal property acquired in the court, the state's attorney's office, the police, and you at the IRS have been transferred capitalally, effectively to the man you're investigating. And so you are in a tremendous advantage, and that is the point and desire of all these European investigators, but constitutional rights do not allow. However, you do not cross any conventions to tax, to investigate this property, it exists, very easily you come to your instrumentation, to your professional people the taxpayer to this, in fact, to this crime of acquired property which has not been investigated to the end and could not be associated with the committing of the crime but remains disproportionate. And in fact this tool is given to you, the state gave it to you, this assembly once gave it to you, we hope that this one will pass through and in some other forms that you will fix all those difficulties that our regular justice system could not prove to you for a number of reasons in the process, but you can do much easier to resuscitate and revive the constitutional principle that crime must never be paid off and then lift that level not from 60% but to 3/4 of that property benefit. So, pick it up wouldn't be wrong and raise up to 90% because it's not really insignificant it's not a product of honest work, honest approach. but she has a source on criminal grounds. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19841	The next final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, Commissioner Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19842	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, therefore finally, in our alternative proposal for tax reform, which we have given ourselves as the first need to reduce income inequalities, to ensure the constitutional principle, the principles of the social state, through the achievement and strengthening of the principle of the justice of the tax system. Unlike the ruling or proposings, we do not see Croatia's development on the basis of so-called the tickle-down economy of those who believe that the reduction of tax on the richer layers of society releases the potential for investment and prosperity which then somehow drop by drop comes to those poorer and medium layers. We do not believe in the trickle-down economy because its creators gave it up, and even in 2005, the International Monetary Fund said that releasing the richer than the tax burden does not lead to an increase in prosperity or a reduction in inequality but rather the opposite. I know it may not be expected for me to quote Pope Francis, but when it comes to him, I have to. He told the trickle-down economy next. Some people continue to defend the trickle-down theories that assume that economic growth is supported by the free market is intrinsically leading to an increase in justice and inclusiveness. This opinion, which has never been undermined by facts or evidence, represents a harsh and naive belief in the goodness of those who have the economic power and sanctity of the current economic system. This proposal for tax reform reduces the tax press, but for whom is the tax press reduced? It decreases for those who already have the most economic power in society, while those with the lowest incomes as well as the middle layer get very little or nothing. In addition, this tax reform continues to favour income from capital and property against labour income. And who has income from capital and property, the richest or medium and lower layer? We know the answer to that. Furthermore, this kind of system encourages actually legal forms of tax evasiveness because you explain to me, for example. Why would the owner of a company hire an IT expert, an engineer instead of suggesting that you open a company, you don't even have to get a job in it, give me the bills, I'll pay you, you'll pay 10% of the profit tax at the end of the year, and everything else is yours, cheaper to me, cheaper to you. That's how we get to those thousands and thousands of firms where we don't have any employees. It's a legal form, unfortunately legal tax evasion. And then what happens? So we come to the example that I was already saying that more tax burdens, even in absolute terms, are not only in proportion to the medium and poorer layers of society than those with greater economic power. This of course has its consequences at the macroeconomic level, and especially in times of crisis because instead of increasing personal consumption that increases by raising wages to those from the lower and medium layer, we will actually increase the income of those who already have enough and which belong to those last two children of the richest and who actually put those funds into savings. I will only visit that the prime minister said here, and even the rich spend, it reminded me of that "and rich cry", which touched me very much. Our proposals therefore went in the direction of promoting labour profitability and production, so release as the first tax on reinvested profits, I think we should encourage reinvestment gains, not profit payments. This actually encourages us to get out of the company. We went in the direction of increasing then tax rates at the profit paid, but in a way that is treated as personal income and applied to the same rates as the employment income, we suggested that this tax burden be redistributed through 4 progressive rates in order to have a greater effect of increasing wages to the lower and medium layers, including those we want to keep in Croatia, engineers, doctors, IT professionals. In this way, they would expand the tax base, reduce tax evasiveness, ensure that the richest pay proportionally, but such a twist is expected to not be accepted. However, we will continue to give this vision of a fairer and more prosperous Croatia, one where it is well-lived from the work in which it is worth creating and producing, not living exclusively from property, usually inherited and capital. [[Intruder: Time.]] I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19843	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19844	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I will again actually show how much with these changes in the tax system has actually contributed to the dispensation of citizens, as well as entrepreneurs. When you take just one segment, which is VAT, then by 2020 the total discharge was over 3 billion and 280 million kuna. Many speeches have not been moved in this segment and further discharges have been caused, and it has been forgotten, in fact, how much, that the VAT has been reduced to municipal services, to electricity, to reduce to and in tourism from 25% to 13%, that the VAT has been reduced to medicines, and then this amount of over 3 billion kuna is quite significant. We can discuss whether the total VAT rate is generally high, for sure, but we also need to consider these facts. Speaking of income, let us not forget that the personal income tax deduction has been increased from 2600 to 4000 kuna. If personal deductions were changed for family members, i.e. for children, and when you look that from 2016 on such a 4-member family now has a release on that basis of over 8 250 kuna, I speak only a personal deduction, so, insurance bearer and two children, then you see that in this segment of the lowest income we have a 100% exemption from income tax. This is also about reinvested profits and returning to the system. Yes, it may have been interesting for some, however, at an annual level, about a billion kuna was invested in reinvesting profits and when you look at whether it's an effect that can bring more prosperity and investment to entrepreneurs, then I don't think that can be the only argument. Therefore, I believe that this very tax change and fiscal policy that will give just such a stable and quality basis, where every entrepreneur will know what he is expecting, we must seek precisely the simplicity of the tax system, but also predictability, and that is what these tax reforms want to achieve. So it's not about increasing the tax press, it's about unloading, I'm talking about citizens and entrepreneurs again, and we really need to verify that well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19845	Last final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Most Independent Lists MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19846	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, dear Minister, I know you're having fun typing on your cell phone, I'd just like to say a little bit in the end. Equal development, Minister, is not until the moment when entrepreneurs, those who want to invest, i.e. who want to create jobs, entrepreneurs who are only important for the survival of 2/3 of Croatia, which are empty, demographically broken, is an important job. It means to me that in Drnis, Sinj, I don't know, Zadar, Sibenik, Slavonia, Lici, Gorski Kotar, we'd open a job, we'd have to relieve this entrepreneur of all taxes and taxes on the moratorium for at least five years. If we don't want empty spaces left, it's the only measure, the job in those areas. I'm saying this myself not for political reasons, but it's a fact that very few investors, i.e. The entrepreneur comes to these parts because simply, in these parts, there is much more expensive mountain-mounted underdeveloped, energy, they are away from the centre, less labour force because it has gone labour force and every contractor of the triba for 2 years, 3 years, moratorium on all the givings that exist, which will invest and employ people in that area and this is the strongest measure. A job and such reform of the triba. It means reform to keep people in these areas. Otherwise, it's a good thing local self-government is still in 2017, '18. that local self-government is decentralised. It's okay based on certain indices and it's okay. But who's going to open up jobs in, I don't know, any neighborhood that's underdeveloped? Well, it's a pity that in the Gorski Kotar, there are empty saws in the face, that nothing works. And that is simple, until we show the entrepreneur a good will, and not those entrepreneurs are even scrambling in these areas because they are far from the altar, both in agriculture and in the economy, both in offers, in the European or regional development ministries, because people, of course, do not want to invest there. They are all heading towards Zagreb and larger centres. And there's room to do that because if there's one man left, one family in that area, we've done a lot. And in this direction we need to direct policy, we need to protect, means even development. We need to give some time to these people, entrepreneurs in this area, those who want to come and invest, that in this area they have no taxes, no taxes. How many years, feel free to decide, that's the key. As for the disproportionate property, I believe no matter what you've just raised here,.../incomprehensible/... to be taxed I think without the law on the origin of the property there's no such deal, it's very simple there, all people can prove that they've acquired their property because those who have torn up everything alive, simply act like they don't know anything, a few days of it being talked about, some are closed, it's all Ivo Sanader's fault, no one knows him anymore. Those who were with him have no idea, State Secretary, ministerial assistants, tunnel painting, so this whole... Was until we, colleagues and colleagues, brought together a law on the origin of property because this is all fog and destruction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's even been five years so that some... We'll give a period of 20 years, that's possible, infinite. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that we are brought to the wall that 2/3 of Croatia, if we want the state, the state is not only the surface, with people we have to do everything to make people have jobs in these areas of 2/3 of Croatia that are undeveloped, which are abandoned, the decline of the population is huge. I know he'll get mad at Mayor Drnish, he says everything blooms in Drnis, I'd like it all to bloom. It is the most beautiful end of Drinjska, Cetinski and our Zagora, there is no better place to live, near the sea, mountains, rivers, clean water, the environment, agriculture everything is possible to develop here, tourism. But we don't have a discharge, it can't be the same for an entrepreneur in any.../incomprehensible/... tax treatment in Zagreb and in these areas. And you can't just ask yourself, talk about Zagreb and the earthquake that was catastrophic. Major damages made by policies in 2/3 of Croatia than the earthquake in Zagreb what he did. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u19847	Here's what we've exhausted from the full debate. I'm closing the debate on all five laws, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now, we're gonna take a break for the ventilation and we're gonna continue at 15 and 45. It's 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20711	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. It is next: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy and finally by the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. Now, I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Honorable Minister of Health, Willy Beroš. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20712	Mr. President-in-Office of the HS, the honourable parliamentary MPs, the honourable parliamentary representatives. As we witness in the Republic of Croatia, and the whole world is facing a major challenge, the global pandemic of a new viral disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which at this time has suffered over 63 million 788 and 113 patients worldwide, and has died 1 million 489, 442 patients. In the Republic of Croatia from 25 February 2020
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20713	Just a little, please, Minister. Come on, come on, you three are in the assembly, you know that the rule is that every club can have as much as it's defined, please sit down, it's very lively, it's an important topic please calm down. Here you go. ... You asked Stanko after the minister left, you're not at the beginning so we can't interrupt. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There will be a break after the minister is finished. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20714	Thank you very much. 134.881 of whom unfortunately died in 1861. In doing so, it should be noted that the number of deceased citizens has been extremely high in the last few days. Today, on the 288nd day following the occurrence of the coronary virus, 3,539 new cases have been reported, and currently the number of active cases in the Republic of Croatia is 22,610, at the hospital treatment of 2,400 people of whom 252 patients on respiratory support. Up to today, 110,355 people have recovered, and today 52,079 people are self-insulating, and today 55 people have died. As early as January 31st 2020, the World Health Organization declared the disease an epidemic, a public health threat of international importance due to the rate of spread of the epidemic and the large number of unknowns in connection with it. Then on 11.3., the WTO declared the world pandemic, and the Republic of Croatia declared the epidemic by decision of the health minister. The entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is considered to be endangered or infected areas. The November 2020 Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases complemented the relevant legal provisions of a new infectious disease that has been caused by an unknown coronary virus so far. The Republic of Croatia has very early started implementing epidemiological and other measures aimed at curbing and spreading this infection, and the aim of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases is to find and enable the most effective legislative and institutional model of managing the global pandemic crisis and local epidemic. During the last eight weeks of the 32nd to 39th week, the rate of confirmed cases has been steadily increasing, the total number of tests after a slight fall at Week 32 and Week 33 of the 34th epidemic has been continuously increasing, and a maximum number of tests at week 38 have been achieved in the total of 60,516 tests at that week. However, the number of positive tests is 22.72% which is not good. As the number of cases and number of hospitalized persons increases, the number of people in need of a respirator also increases to 100.00 inhabitants. As a general legislative model of crisis management, the appropriate severity and urgency of the pandemic described by rapid and unpredictable changes, as well as the constant risk of exponential growth of patients with previous changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases, has been regulated by the institutional model according to which the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia acts and decides in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Ministry of Health under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This institutional model enables the rapid implementation and implementation of two basic principles of action and decision-making during global pandemics, as caused by covid-19 disease, which are the principle of effectiveness and effectiveness and the principle of proportionality. In other words, the proposed models ensure that the measures taken meet the legitimate objectives set, primarily the protection of human health and life, but that these measures, as well as their intensity, are at the same time such that they strictly meet the needs of the given moment and only last until the circumstances require that the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of citizens at all times be limited, only to the extent necessary and which corresponds to the nature of the needs within their limitations. All measures The National Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia brings in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health's crisis headquarters and on a proposal from the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Given the current epidemiological situation, and in order to prevent and combat the spread of Covid-19 disease caused by the new SARS-CoV-2 virus, this law proposes new safety measures to prevent and combat infectious diseases. The planned measures, as well as their intensity, should strictly meet the needs, as we said, given the moment and give only as long as the circumstances require. The proposed law allows for more effective management of the response to the crisis in the situation of infectious disease Covid-19, its effective control to protect human life and health. Given the new circumstances, we adapt, change regulations, adopt measures and seek to improve existing legislative and institutional crisis management models. When it comes to the very content of this bill, new security measures are proposed. First, the obligation to wear a face mask or a medical mask properly. Second, a security measure prohibiting or restricting the maintenance of public events and/or gatherings, and a 3rd security measure prohibiting or restricting the maintenance of private gatherings. The prescribing of sanctions for legal persons, for the person responsible in the legal person, as well as for the natural person of the craftsman and the natural person carrying out another independent activity and for natural persons who do not comply with the security measures adopted and the payment of the criminal penalty at the place of the offence will be in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code. The power of police officers, the inspector of the public administration responsible for civil protection, the inspector of the State Inspectorate and the inspector of other authorities of the state administration, to exercise control over the implementation of security measures under their jurisdiction, when an outbreak of infectious disease has been declared in relation to which the World Health Organization has declared a pandemic or epidemic. When it comes to the objectives of this legislative proposal, these are to enable even more effective crisis management in a situation where global pandemics and local epidemics have been declared cumulatively declared and effectively suppressed in order to protect people's lives and health. In relation to the proposed safety measures, it should be noted that according to the current course of the Covid-19 disease epidemic, the need for proper wear of the face mask or medical masks is clearly indicated by covering the nose and mouth, which affects the reduction of the potential risk of transmission of the virus. Face and medical masks are recommended as a simple obstacle to prevent respiratory drops from travelling into the air to other persons, when a person wearing a mask is sneezing, talking, or raising his voice. It's called control of the source of the infection. Furthermore, the correct use of masks is most important when people are in a closed space and when social distance is difficult to implement or maintain. Wearing masks in the community as an important anti-epileptic measure is also recommended by the WHO, the European Centre for Disease Control and the Center for Disease Control of the United States, as well as the HZZZ. In the event of public events and gatherings, as well as during the maintenance of private gatherings, where a number of people who make close contacts can be gathered in a given space, the risk of spreading the virus and ultimately, to endangering the health of the public and it is necessary to prescribe sanctions for legal persons, for responsible persons in the legal person, as well as for the natural person of the craftsman and the natural person who carries out the other independent activity and for natural persons who do not adhere to the security measures adopted. The orderly measures, as well as their intensity strictly correspond to the needs of the given moment and will only last as long as the circumstances require that the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens at all times should only be limited to the extent necessary and appropriate to the nature and needs of their restriction. And now, given that this crisis has been going on for almost 10 months, the government's view is that at the beginning of the next session of HS, the Assembly is to report on the implementation of measures and activities in the fight against this new viral disease. And let me conclude in the end that new amendments to the law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases are a necessary step in the fight against coronary viruses. Analyzing the current circumstances and risks of the changes that have been made and are filled there to allow for the adjustment of the new moment of the epidemic for the benefit of all of us. They do not constitute a restriction of freedom, they do not represent double standards or represent political decisions. They were brought in to better manage the epidemic, prevent the spread of viral disease and cause the rapid recovery of the nation and the health system. In all this, it is important to raise awareness of both personal responsibility and concern for our neighbors, neighbors, fellow citizens. Community and solidarity is a necessary link between citizens, relevant institutions and the implementation of new amendments and additions to this law. It's the only way we can achieve the results we want and do it all together. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20715	Thank you, Minister. Now, before we move on to the replicas, we'll have a request for a break. Dear colleague Marija Selak Rasdic, therefore, Minister, please sit down because we will have a break, we will continue until later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20716	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, all of us here have been brought into an invisible and unfounded situation. It is asked of us to adopt new measures that should help protect our population from the threat of the coronary virus, but at no time in this bill as well as in the current address of the minister we have not heard or received the basics that would make us accept new measures, it is the primary report on the work of the headquarters we have been looking for for the past two months to give our professional and scientific contribution based on it and to discover an analysis of the effects of the measures so far, a comparison with foreign experiences. I will remind you that with many measures, we are already late for other countries, and we have been able to easily pick up experiences of how effective these measures have been, what is the response of citizens to them, which of them should be used and which are not so useful. That basic, figures, figures, figures we want a professional and scientific analysis, why right now, on the basis of which the figures of this measure, on which the figures will be mitigated or doditated, or if God does not give the need to sharpen. The measures are not something to be used with a shovel, the measures are not something to be shrewd at the moment someone panics, this is a serious health moment, let's act like a serious and responsible body. Give us arguments, give us an analysis, give us numbers, give us an analysis of the work of the headquarters to know if we can even talk about this and these concrete measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20717	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. There's also a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20718	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 10-minute break in order to further consult on how we will be asked about this bill. I didn't ask for a deliberate break before the minister's speech because I wanted to hear from the minister the words that would convince me that what is happening today and what is proposed on a regular basis, that this is a regular state and that these are the measures that would be necessary for nothing to happen in Croatia, however. The minister made it very clear that these are measures introduced because of an emergency health situation that threatens the lives and health of people and that they will only last and only at the time of the epidemic. Why am I saying this? Because it's an art. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is very clearly prescribed that, at the time of the extraordinary circumstances of major natural disasters, certain freedoms and rights of man and citizen may be limited beyond the regular foreseen Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but in the Constitution the prescribed way. As long as the Croatian Parliament is meeting this prescribed way is the two-thirds majority in HS and ministers don't be angry, in one you are seriously wrong, if we are telling someone to wear masks and that without masks we cannot walk our streets, our squares, our cities and punish him for this is not a regular course of things. Last year, you and I would have walked along the streets of Zagreb, Split or Pula without a mask. And I can accept the need to punish it and force someone to behave that way, but only in the manner prescribed by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20719	The apartment will be approved. Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20720	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to reiterate the importance of the adoption of this law. Before that, I would like to say that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has found that this is the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Civil Protection Staff in agreement with the Minister of Health absolutely in accordance with Article. 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that the rights and freedoms of Croatian citizens can be limited by law in the event that the health of citizens is questioned, the Art. 16. The Constitution. If the COvid-19 epidemic is not a threat to Croatian citizens as prescribed. 16. I would like the gentlemen to explain to me what would then be a threat to the health of Croatian citizens. The second thing, the obligation to wear masks in a closed area, is the Civil Protection Staff of Honored counterparts and colleagues brought October 14th as a measure to prevent the spread of covida-19 infection to the Republic of Croatia. In today's law, we impose penalties unless this measure, which is based on the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, is respected. It is not clear to me how opposition colleagues forget that we, in HS, second time, are discussing the imposition of penalties for non-compliance with the measures prescribed by the Law on the Protection of the public. For the first time, gentlemen, we discussed this on April 17th, so I remind you that at that time, in the normative part of the law, we have prescribed an obligation to self-insulation, and in criminal provisions, we have prescribed a penalty for disrespecting a solution to self-insulation in the amount of 8000 kuna, which is 16 times more than this penalty that today is. We suggest that the Parliament adopt. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20721	Comrade Bačić, you are being warned. Please don't ignore calls when the time is up. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20722	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable colleague Bačić has been injured by an article. 238, because he actually demeaned all of us who were forced to listen to him. A colleague, Bacic, interprets the Constitutional Court's decision in his own way. The Constitutional Court has not decided on these measures that we are now discussing nor on these penalties, and you cannot reflect the decision it has made in a completely different situation on this one. After all, the President of the Constitutional Court made it clear that to observe how the provisions of the Constitution are respected and in the future after that decision. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20723	Thank you very much, and also a reminder to you because you've replicated, and you haven't talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and you've exceeded your time, so you've made two mistakes. Let's move on. Now we'll be told by a colleague, Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20724	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to consult once more on the amendments to this law. Namely, a colleague of Bačić deliberately mixes pears and apples when comparing that someone who is consciously infected with the virus goes to an airport or children's hospital and compares it equally... I'm sorry you want to interrupt him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So he's already got one warning. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić, please.]] So when someone or who is prescribed self-insulation or is infected to compare it to not being able to gather more than 10 people in someone's private home under the threat of punishment of 10,000 kuna, they are pears and apples forgive. We are clear on the principle that there is no punishment for citizens without laws and other principles, no restriction on the constitution of guaranteed rights without a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. We're fine with these bill proposals coming up, these kind of changes within 24 hours because it's a state of emergency, even though it hasn't been voted by HS. It is okay for us to have parliamentary control and that Parliament decides on such matters as it should have decided on such matters from the beginning, but we cannot agree that the principle of proportionality is not respected, although it is written in the light of these amendments to the law, and we cannot agree that such powers are given to headquarters without any prescribed time limit, periodical revisions as long as this state of emergency is going to last, we cannot agree to that. And your colleagues, if you'd led better this crisis, we wouldn't have come into this situation right now where we went from one extreme of the most liberal model to another extreme overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20725	Thank you very much. She will now explain the break of her respected colleague Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20726	I thank the chairman. I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club for 10 minutes in order to reconsider the proposal for an existing law, especially according to Mr Branko Bačić's statements. It is necessary to read once again the Constitutional Court's decision within this pause and see if it really does, as Branko Bačić suggests in advance, the consent of the Bianca to any future amendments and additions to the laws which will be harshly and difficult to encroach on fundamental human rights and freedoms. I also want to see within this pause whether there is a better way to amend this law which will redefine the role of the headquarters's competence as well as its composition. As you know, we have been suggesting for several days that the restoration of trust cannot be established by giving serious fines but by changing staff, by changing people who have lost confidence in headquarters and led to it. We call upon the headquarters of national unity in order to restore confidence in the measures he prescribes to help stop the further spread of this infection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20727	The apartment will be approved as well. That's it for now, so we'll continue at 1622 hours. It's 4:12 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,22 HOURS]] Minister, please come to the pay phone and we'll start with the replicas. There's a total of 25, as far as I can tell, 25. There's a colleague, Karlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20729	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. We are all aware that the epidemiological situation is not good, not only in Croatia but throughout Europe, but also in all the world's countries and WHO is proposing a variety of measures to help prevent disease spread as effectively as possible. Of course, those measures don't appeal to citizens as soon as they're limited in one of their lives, and that's why I think there's a light at the end of the tunnel, and that's the vaccine. As we can see here, the UK is already starting to vaccinate next week, the Russians are inoculating, i.e. starting vaccination, China has already given millions of people vaccines, two pharmaceutical companies have produced a vaccine that is over 90% effective. I would like to know when Croatia, how many vaccines have been ordered, when it should begin, who will be the first to receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20730	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20731	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. Yes, the vaccine really sheds light on each other in this fight against the coronary virus infection, but we have to wait for it. Great Britain, since it is no longer a member of the EU itself has approved a particular vaccine, we are waiting as a member for the approval of the EMA and this morning in a conversation with the new director of the European Agency for Medical Devices, we have been promised that this agency will give approval as soon as possible to seek the vaccine, therefore, we are optimistic in this regard. As part of the joint action by the EU Commission, Croatia has joined, as many as 6 initiatives for the purchase of vaccines, it is a matter of prior purchase agreements, so we have tried to secure every possible case, that we have a producer to guarantee, in some ways, some of them 6, the existence of vaccines. What is important is that the Croatian state do everything possible to ensure that this vaccine is free of charge, to promote it and to make it, to reach the level that will allow for the protection of the civilian population.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20732	... Comrade Cellic, here you go. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20733	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, these days is a popular and verbal attachment to the evaluation of epidemiological measures, I absolutely believe that, when all this is over, the evaluation of the measures that were ahead of us in the Republic of Croatia, but primarily by the profession, will take place. I must admit, when a great scientist from the humanities field comes across a message of numbers, numbers, numbers, it doesn't seem very convincing to me because it's not enough just figures, the figures need to be interpreted, so please, very briefly state on the basis of which criteria measures are being taken in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20734	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20735	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, you are right, the figures should be commented in some way in the context of the whole event, so the only way to evaluate the situation daily, and then the periodic, epidemiological, state-of-the-art situation in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the situation in the environment, with an analysis of the impact of the measures they have taken in other countries, is therefore the one we serve and, of course, on the basis of expert assessments because, as we said in the introduction, all the measures taken by the Staff, it brings to the HZJZ proposal, so the epidemiological profession. By following the parameters of the numerous epidemics, we evaluate from day to day what are the measures that would result in a certain effect in preventing the spread of this viral disease. And we're adding that there aren't too many unknowns when it comes to spreading this virus, we've talked about it a lot. So, close contact, aerosol, air, and that's it. So there are no unknowns. That's why. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20736	Comrade Simic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20737	I would like to thank the president of HS, your Honored Minister, and I would like to thank you for your presentation. We all know that these changes and additions are extremely important for our population, but also for all health care professionals who bear one great burden, for this very recent time, of course since the 4th month. My question to you, what your position is, is whether these changes and are complemented solely for the purpose of preserving and protecting health, the health of our population, and whether you think it is possible to interpret that they are for the purpose of further filling the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20738	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20739	Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, if we were going to fill the state budget, we could have done it before, so it's absolutely not about any financial, it's about a health aspect. The aim of these measures and sanctions is to prevent the spread of the virus. Unnecessary contacts, unnecessary socializations are what promotes the spread of the virus, which is why our fellow citizens get sick and unfortunately some of them end up in hospitals, some of them end up on the respirator and a lot of them, unfortunately, die. So the aim of the measure is to prevent the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20740	Let's move on. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20741	Dear Ministers, the Croatian Sovereigns Club cannot accept these amendments and supplement laws that will punish our citizens because they wear masks wrong or do not wear masks. These same masks that your closest associates have just said a few months ago that there is no effect in protecting them from the coronaryvirus, it is particularly unacceptable to punish fellow citizens who gather in their homes because home is a constitutional category and I am afraid that these decisions of amending the laws are returning to a dark period of totalitarian regimes. I am afraid that with these amendments and the additions of the law you will not achieve the desired goal, which is to reduce the pandemic corona, which is aimed at all of us, but will cause additional revolt of Croatian citizens and counterproducts, I fear insubordination on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20742	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20743	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian, I appreciate your opinion, but the fact is that scientific, scientific elements confirm the need for wearing a mask. The mask really prevents the spread of the infection as well as unnecessary gatherings contribute to the spread of the infection. So we're talking about different things. If someone gathers in their own home, thus deliberately provoking the situation that the virus can spread makes the Croatian nation ill-health. So things are very clear. The way the virus spread is particularly detected, determined and what is the insistence of these measures is to prevent the possibility of spreading the virus. Disabling therefore the development of disease and the suffering of our fellow citizens. No restrictions on any other freedoms are considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20744	Now it's time for my colleague, Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20745	Dear Ministers, the HSLS will support these measures. I am honestly not the happiest because we have to vote in the Croatian Parliament I am convinced that there is no person here on the left or on the right because of that happy, but the necessity is the situation in which we are presently. It just gives us just too much, doesn't give us too many opportunities. What I will certainly appeal for, because my position is to ban and certainly not achieve something special in the long term, but at this point it is absolutely necessary, and that is why we will nevertheless decide to support such measures. On the other hand, I must say that Croatia is not an island, this situation is not only bad for us, as some might want to show. So, everyone, all EU countries have a similar problem and we're all here as equals and trying to keep up with it as best as possible. What I want to appeal to you is that we try to reduce this as soon as possible, these changes so that we can really use this vaccine that gives us hope simply. these measures of strength. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20746	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20747	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, we are not too happy that we had to reach sanctions from the beginning we have chosen the path of education, responsibility, solidarity that was present in the first wave and we have obtained good results. However, whether after summer relaxation or something else, the relaxation of Croatian citizens has taken place, the virus has started spreading again, the winter conditions, the second wave is more difficult, so we simply have no other option but to act in this way. I also agree with what you said that Croatia is not an island. Well, that's not all Croatia does, that's what the whole world does. The whole of Europe limits freedom of movement, association, and also implies wearing a mask. Why? Because it simply and reliably prevents the spread of viral disease. Of course, not thinking about any other constitutional rights or freedoms being determined and threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20748	Thank you. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20749	Dear Minister Beros, I will compliment you that you are more philosophical than I am in an explanation of the measures to be taken. In fact, you said three times in your presentation when it strictly requires the needs of a given moment and when circumstances require it. Not once did you clearly and unequivocally state what needs, what moments, what circumstances. I'll repeat, our citizens deserve to hear the figures not based on stricter or milder measures. If Great Britain can offer 3 degrees of danger and say on the basis of which figures these measures will introduce why we are left to some religious decision, why our citizens do not have the right to do the same. We want to protect both health and the rights of our citizens, so we are looking for a thorough scientific analysis of these measures, not just an explanation that it exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20750	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20751	Thank you, Madam Parliament MPs, in my opening speech and announced the need for such scientific elaborated effects of measures and activities carried out by the national headquarters and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is also clear that it is not possible to please everyone. For example, it does not satisfy your lack of data, and others do not satisfy the fact that the data is daily and too extreme. Therefore, all those data that are relevant, which is the number of newly infected, the number of hospitalized, the number of seriously ill, unfortunately the number of deaths is explained from day to day. What you might be right about is that we haven't decided on a traffic light strategy, why, because at this point simply across Europe and the world, the situation is such that the numbers are very, very bad. But you can absolutely be sure that all our measures are thoughtful, that they were not brought to a shortcut in panic as someone said, but that they were based on an exact daily analysis of the most relevant epidemiological ones. An indicator of what we're going to tell you, we'll be very happy to inform you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20752	Thank you very much. Comrade Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20753	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers, this law prescribes new security measures to prevent the prevention and spread of diseases, you yourself have said no one is happy, but they are being passed because there is a smaller group of people who do not show compassion for those who are sick, who unfortunately died, who fall into risk groups, but neither to health professionals who are investing in the last atoms of strength and great efforts to save people's lives. You said the headquarters and the government looked into the interests of the entire society by taking these measures but we still hear criticism that individual freedoms on the one hand are being restricted or that the measures are being delayed on the other hand. Please inform us what health care professionals who fall from their feet to save people's lives when they hear the populist calls of individuals that they should not wear masks, that parties can be maintained and that measures should be violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20754	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20755	You get a warning from your colleagues, Bencic. Please, what's that for, why? The debate goes normal, it's not, it happens to other colleagues and colleagues, I don't always warn, you don't see it, but please this outburst wasn't necessary... Come on, don't. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20756	Thank you. You have illuminated this problem from a completely different aspect to be mentioned, and that is all that health care professionals do, to which they testify from day to day in these difficult times. Therefore, they were also personally received by the medical associations and representatives of the hospital associations of doctors who had just said that certain measures should be stepped up and that at that point we did not consider necessary in view of the epidemiological situation. However, they are the ones who best see the consequences of this severe, global pandemic in terms of suffering, disease, and unfortunately death, it casts an absolute second context on the whole story. So I really cannot understand all those who will not sacrifice the minimum of their normal life and prevent the spread of that disease. So we're talking about unnecessary gatherings, unnecessary gatherings, unnecessary encounters, encounters that we can talk about without, and that certainly helps prevent the spread of this viral disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20757	Thank you. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20758	Minister Beroš, you have answered your colleague that you were not in favour of the traffic lights strategy because there is a very difficult situation throughout Europe. I really don't understand that logic or that argument. So we as a green-left block club months ago we put the conclusion in the parliamentary procedure didn't come to a plenary debate where we asked for months ago when the situation was relatively good, but we saw where it would be, we looked for clear thresholds of the number of patients, or the most important number of people hospitalized and the number of people on the respirators, and that these thresholds follow the clearly prescribed measures so that they are objective, that they don't depend on columns of memory, that people objectively accept them and that they don't feel that they're making political decisions from today to tomorrow because you're going from the most liberal model from today to tomorrow in the most restrictive. And those estimates of Djikic about how many of your colleagues died in the headquarters were also rejected by hand, and eventually they came true. Why didn't you accept it then months ago when we suggested it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20759	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20760	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. So no one disrespected anything, we were open to all the options, we announced the second wave he happened and he wasn't good. What our choice was, at that point, an epidemiological profession not to use the traffic lights model because there are many other models that can obtain and determine the application of certain measures. We used them, I said it was a daily analysis of the epidemiological condition. Perhaps in some communication sense to the citizens would be some better model, but we were guided by the effectiveness of the measures themselves, by an analysis of the measures. And you're right to say, but when Europe came to this stage that most of the countries were in the red light had become so irrelevant, that's what I'm talking about. Perhaps at some early stage it would be acceptable, but we analyzed the measures carefully, balanced health care, safeguarding the economy, and I don't think there have been any major errors incompating with any epidemiological service in the world and in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20761	Thank you. Comrade Reiner, here you go. Excuse me, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20762	I'll forgive you. The Honorable Ministers. You have called for the continued growth of the sick, the continued growth of the hospitalized, unfortunately we also witness a large number of dead persons, with no desire or intention to make my question sound like a criticism of what has gotten out of your control, please explain to us in order to understand better why we are passing this law and what we want to achieve by it? How did the situation become escalating, which, in your opinion, is the cause? Did the contents of the measures taken by the headquarters or because the measures taken by the headquarters were not respected and implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20763	Thank you very much, Mrs. President. Parliamentarians. I'll be objective to say that the combination of these causes that you cited that led to the deterioration of the epidemiological situation, however, Croatia is not isolated there. It happens in all our neighboring countries, it happens all over the world. Each country has sought its own way, some of its measures that would try to contain the spread of this infection. We had our way. At some point due to specific circumstances, I've already listed which, the coming of a colder time, the more we're inside, the more we're hanging out, the more there's been an outbreak of infection. We reacted on two occasions, by increasing the first degree of measures and then by now by this recent increase in measures, so these are our efforts to address the situation and just as neighboring surrounding countries are fighting against the spread of this infection. And so I'm going to repeat again, it's a very clear way of spreading the virus, we know the way we can do it, all of these measures are just going that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20764	Now he's a colleague of Reiner's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20765	I can literally tell the public about this particular law with claims that the amendments to this law will get some new powers, that police will break into people's homes, private apartments, count people in those apartments and actually carry out repression. I ask you very clearly to tell everyone, is that true, is this really going to happen, whether the police are going to count whether there are 6, 7, 10 or 11 members of the same family and whether the police are going to have some new powers of this law different from what she's had so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20767	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. I think we need a very clear answer to your question. Therefore, there are no new powers, police and all other inspectors will be based on the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So a cop will never violently enter an apartment other than other foreseeable circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20768	Just a little buddy Berosh. My colleague Tomašević has now crossed the line, and I am constantly following you and I am not warning you and my colleague Bencic. It's funny to you. We're also talking today about an epidemic that's caused a lot of people to die. It's nothing funny to me, and you've always had something funny. ... Well, I find it funny sometimes to listen to your arguments, but I'm not laughing because I'm focused enough on the work I'm doing, so I'd like to ask you to let others do the same. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You are calling for freedom, democracy, and you are laughing at others when they say what you do not have, counterpart Selek Raspoudić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20769	Art. The 238th Honored President of the Parliament demeans parliamentary representatives Tomaševic and Bencic. I'm interested in the basis of which analysis and transparency of these masks did you manage to conclude that your colleagues were laughing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20770	My colleague, Selak Raspadic, I look in my eyes. You can see in your eyes if anyone's laughing or having bad intentions. Look people in the eyes may make life easier for you. Excuse me, Minister, for interrupting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20771	No problem, I'll just repeat the following. So everything needs to be done to protect the lives and health of Croatian citizens. It is clear that the entry of Croatian police into Croatian homes will not be. In addition, there is Mr. Secretary of State from the Ministry of Interior, and in case of need, he may further elaborate. But this bill amending the law doesn't change police conduct in any way, but it should be asked if any of the neighbors report any party, unnecessary, inexplicable as a possible cause of spreading infections, We bear witness that this is still a health - protection course. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20772	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20773	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. I'm glad to see you here, especially because you're over the coronary virus and I'm glad you're with us today. However, my question to you is, where have you been so far? Do you really think that by this urgent law that you will punish citizens for not wearing masks, even those who have been over the crown, who are not actually the source of the infection, or the recipients of the infection, you will also be able to solve the problem by breaking into apartments and punishing those who organize private gatherings? You've given no reason to think that by adopting this law, we're going to get to a goal because we don't know what the goal is. And it's even more questionable because for a month you've assured us that things are under control, that the measures so far have yielded results, and we see that they haven't, they've given the opposite results to those desired. You didn't listen to most of them, but in the minority in scientific advice, you had double criteria, one of you defended them from gathering while thousands of people gathered in some places. What's going on and why should we trust you? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20774	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20775	Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentarians. You have asked a series of questions that cannot be answered, i.e. I'd need at least 15 for... Where have I been? I've been preparing a health system for what's next. We have over 2,000 patients in hospitals, they take the place of someone who needs not covid health care, so it was not easy to organize a health care system in this way and adapt to the given circumstances. All of our patients are being treated, unfortunately some of them are dying, but they are being treated. The organisation of the health system was extremely important. Furthermore, I'm surprised you're asking the question of our cause. Our goal is to prevent the spread of this virus, to prevent the spread of the disease, to prevent people from getting sick, to prevent people from dying, and we've brought it on the basis of certain considerations, based on measures. And the amendments to the law are one of the elements in that direction, very simple. I said, preventing unnecessary contact, unnecessarily socializing, unnecessary encounters is not a welcome situation in these times of global pandemic, very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20776	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20777	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. You see, for a month and a half, we have been very seriously warning that this situation is going to happen, which unfortunately happened, and not that it wasn't funny for us, but we've been making very specific suggestions. A month and a half ago when it could still be reacted and when measures could achieve certain results precisely to your prime minister who was the only one who actually laughed at it. When I asked him if he was laughing at doctors’ associations who made the same suggestions, he nodded. So, the only person who laughs here at the concrete proposals that were made by both the rehearsal and the doctor was prime minister. I will appeal once again to answer the question first of all, do you feel politically responsible for not being able to do so months and a half ago, knowing that winter is coming because it is an annual period that is repeated every year, that you have not introduced measures such as empowering the detection of contacts, that we have not introduced labour measures from houses that could prevent what we have now and that could prevent the adoption and need for such strict measures that we now have.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20778	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20779	Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentarians. It's easy to be a general after the battle because someone then had elements to predict coffee would be a situation. We expected bad, but we balanced between maintaining economic activities and maintaining health. The measures taken at that time were appropriate and adequate. If someone had a magic formula and recipe anywhere in the world and in Europe, they would have already applied it. However, I am not sure that any country has received significant results in its various stages of the development of this viral disease. Therefore, everyone was able to manage the way he knew, our path was a profession, an epidemiological analysis, professional measures adapted to the current moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20780	Comrade Baradic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20781	Thank you, President HS. Dear Minister. Here, as a nurse who worked in the covid department in the first wave of pandemics and spent six hours in a protective suit, I believe that this bill is of great quality, given that there are still those who think we don't need masks and that the virus is a conspiracy theory, so I support this proposal which makes sense to prevent or protect people's lives and health or prevent the spread of viruses as you have already stated. I believe that any nurse who is now less than two degrees of radiation in one-time clothing will be grateful if she has at least two less patients on her suit than she is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20782	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20783	Thank you. Almost nothing should be added to your words. So, the fact is that we live at a time of pandemic as well as the whole world, that people get sick, unfortunately and die, that health workers do their jobs without the minority being responsible. So, if we're aware that the virus is spreading at close range, that we don't need to touch it, that we should wear a mask, so let's do everything we can to preserve the lives and health of our fellow citizens. I'm not talking about some of the activities that are of paramount importance, we're talking about some kind of commodity without which we can really do for a little while if the epidemiological indicators, as we can see now and some parts of the world, suggest that if we're disciplined, if we reduce the transmission of the virus to self-inflicted epidemics into some other circle that can and can be subdued. Of course, we have additional elements, and these are vaccines and other new drugs and auxiliary methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20784	Thank you. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20785	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to answer two questions for me. First of all, it concerns the legal framework within which we are fighting the crown, which is what you are interpreting the fact that when an article has not already been activated. 17. The Constitution, not to be followed by an article. 47 The Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases has been followed rather than followed by Article 47 of the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. 22 Civil Protection System Act. Instead of making those decisions as a health minister, which is done by most of your colleagues in Europe, which would make me happier, Mr Bozinovic makes. How do you comment, was it an act of reduced trust in you and a larger one towards Bozinovic? The second question is whether or not you are following, when you review these research, modern research like this Oxford research, David Eyre and associates, who analyzed 1246 medical professionals who had a crown and who did not get it for 6 months, while in the control group they received 85. Because a lot of pensioners get over the crown, there are asthmatics, they have to wear masks even though they shouldn't wear them. Will you? those people are excluded from punishment? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20787	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. I already entered a dilemma once about which, comments on the articles of the Constitution, so since I'm not a lawyer, I resent that, however, I'm going to say that. 17. describes the state of war and the immediate threat to the independence and unity of the state, which is not the case, in contrast to Article 17. 16 that describes the threat to health. So much for constitutional provisions. When it comes to my authority as Minister of Health, the Health Ministry's Cross General has launched defence from Covid, however, at the moment we saw the demand for the situation crossing our frameworks, meaning simply, the need to involve other institutions, from border police, sanitary inspectors, civil protection, was involved, therefore, and activated a civil protection mechanism that is appropriate. So it's not about less trust for me as a minister than for the defense to require far greater and more complex organisations and structural forces except for except for the Health Department's Crisis Headquarters. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20788	Now it's time for my colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20789	... Mr. Minister, I will, in an individual debate, actually touch on the issues of measures and the proposed law. [[Specially enabled.]] I will certainly point out that there have been significant indicators and warnings that this kind of escalation of the infection will occur. You've been warned by the profession, by members of scientific advice, but here, we have to admit that it didn't respond in time. Now I would actually use your presence and I would say that one way to manage the crisis and the better and more adequate communication with the citizens, so I would appeal to you that in that communication with the dead, you do not highlight what we have been hearing for months with the dead, those with such and such co-morbidities. We are aware that both young people and middle and younger people of life are suffering without a comorbidity. And if you keep talking to the Commodities, then the public thinks that the younger ones don't get sick and actually get the wrong impression, and that's why you have the situation, so, uh, the ones who would die anyway, so... I urge you to change that communication. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20790	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20791	Appreciated, ma'am. MPs, you might even agree partly with you because that is how we stress the situation and the picture that only the elderly are our sick fellow citizens dying, which is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20792	Now it's my colleague Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20793	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, one small remark, Mr. President, can be heard, not only can you see, therefore, and if a man is wearing a mask, you can know that he is laughing, so then one remark about my injury to the Rules of Procedure was inappropriate. Mr. Minister, during the morning and yesterday the opposition challenged the passing of the law by emergency procedure, they apparently require this law to go a month in consultation with the interested public, after which the first reading, and then the second reading, so that in this procedure we might bring this law somewhere in the spring of next year. Do you think the measures we would bring to spring next year would be effective in curbing this epidemic, these days, which is like this in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20794	Wait a minute, I have to answer to my colleague Bacic. [[Intruder: Dear Mr. Assembly...]] So the representative wasn't talking about what was heard, she was talking about what I saw. So I've seen through the eyes and heard, of course, it's quite clear. But thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20795	Injured Art. In 238, Bacic uncannyly called the opposition to ask that the law not go by emergency procedure. Most opposition MPs voted this morning that the law is going by emergency procedure, and that argument that we are obstructing something, etc., will not pass you by in public. So we want the Parliament to discuss, to pass the law, to be in an emergency procedure, and one opposition club has tactically mistaken what he just gave you for an opportunity to say it, but we're going to pedagogically discuss it with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20796	Comrade Bauk, you're partly right, one part of the opposition was for, one part was not, so, come on, you're right, but this was more of a replica, but it's not for a warning anyway. Comrade Boric, you've also called, same thing, okay, thank you. Then let's move on. Now, the answer is that, Minister, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20797	Yeah, well, I'm glad that now we're kind of in agreement that it would be good to pass this law as soon as possible, to get the action started as soon as possible, to stop the spread of this virus for this, in the way envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20798	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20799	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I have a very simple question for you, actually after all you've put out here today, I don't understand, and I'm asking you why the government has now proposed such a harsh punishment for citizens when we know that the number of people infected on a daily basis is between 3.5 and 4000 a day, when we know that more than 50 people unfortunately lose the battle with this disease a day. Do you really think we're going to believe that 45, 50 days ago you didn't have any indication in which direction the situation is going in Croatia because we're not really an island, as you said. You said we didn't have any indicators, and watch out, just in the 15th 10th year, Krunoslav Capak, quote, says there may have been an exponential growth. It's possible because today we have 181 patients, yesterday we had 372, and the day before 748. Inverted day, sorry So today you say General after the battle [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] This is the information you're familiar with. [[Intruder: Time's up for my colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20800	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20801	Yes, ma'am. The parliamentary representatives from your presentation failed to understand how to do so in the 10th month. You could predict these numbers. I think you've pulled a statement from your colleague Capak's context and it wasn't all this time about the exponential growth of the newly ill. I mean, if you look at the data and the number of increases, it's still not exponential and in some way it's been controlled all along. Yes, at that time it was impossible to predict what numbers would be, however, and then certain measures were adopted that were adapted to the current moment, as at this time we are bringing new measures and amendments to the law, all in order to prevent the spread of this viral disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20802	Comrade Ban-Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20803	Dear Ministers, I believe it is necessary to implement amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of the public, however, I also believe that more energy should be invested in changes and additions that are enforceable and moderate in favour of increasing the protection of citizens' health rather than in filling the budget. Also, the penalty intensity should be the motivation of citizens and legal persons to carry out activities to prevent the spread of the disease, not poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20804	Thank you, thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. Exactly what you stated was our way, so first education, then control, and when we saw that it was not working either and that there was a minority of Croatian citizens who were not acting responsibly, we felt that it was necessary for a new step, very reluctant and very inadequate, but still a step that prevented the spread of this viral infection, which is also sanctions. I hope there will be as few as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20805	Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms-Bujevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20806	Dear Mr. Chairman, Minister, Secretary of State. Every week at the government session you actually present all the numbers and all the epidemiological measures that have been introduced or abolished in the past week. And they are based on the expert opinion of epidemiologists and other professional services. All of this is publicly broadcast on television, so it's really surprising when someone says there's no information available about the indicators. And in this memo that you sent us when you interpret the law and its need, you also cited cumulative 7 days and 14 days, and these are exactly the parameters that this country has always been guided by, as it was in the first stage, and I'm sure you're doing it today. So I ask you, however, to comment on these indicators, so that here, once again, everyone who thinks they're not getting enough information, and they're not a profession, so some of them may not be able to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20807	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20808	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. Well, you've touched something that's already been mentioned before, and that's the methodology for making epidemiological measures. Some countries used the traffic lights method, but on the other hand, as I said several times, on a daily basis, we evaluated all the necessary epidemiological parameters describing one epidemic on a weekly basis. Of the number of newly infected and numerous other factors that are not even known to the general public, therefore, our profession has been doing so in secret since the beginning of this threat, since the 2nd month, also now. Based on all this thinking, the parameters, the comparative analysis, the comparison, we've brought some thought and our measure. Is it possible not to make a mistake in that? It's not. There is no country in the world that has not at least made some mistakes in implementing its measures. But it's important to see certain changes, to see trends, and to try to adapt to them. That's what our intensity is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20809	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20810	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, following the Prime Minister's step-up or the Joint Chief of Staff, you can get this impression. When it goes well, the government is responsible, and when it goes bad, they are irresponsible citizens, so if you can tell me, is what happened in the spring and what was good, responsible for the government, and are what's happening now bad, is that why the government is responsible? And my second question is can you confirm to the Croatian public that you know what you're doing, that is to say, if you don't pass this law, the number of people infected per day will grow to so much by the end of the year, and now, when we bring it, it won't grow but it will shrink, it will remain the same, etc. That's the question, so citizens have confidence in those who lead them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20811	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. It takes two, therefore, neither measures nor citizens themselves can win success in the fight against this epidemic. The measures can be perfect, and the citizens don't have to stick to them and we'll stand badly and vice versa. Therefore, only in the community. And on the other hand, medicine isn't your math. This can't be mathematically explained. You can't say how positive it would be if we didn't take measures and vice versa. It's simply not possible, what we can do and what we only do, we follow the effect of these measures from day to day, and we adapt, it's the only way to respond. There's no mathematical formula that will tell you, if you don't set a measure, in 10 days or 15 or 20, the number will be that big and so much. So there is no such prediction in medicine ever, nor in this case a concrete epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20812	Now, we're going to be able to connect with the representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20813	Yeah, well, I hear you, you probably hear me, too. Thank you very much, President-in-Office. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] Let me just say first of all that this video that Parliament employees have managed to organize works well and can absolutely participate and monitor the work of the assembly, so I am using this opportunity to commend them. But now my question is Minister Berosha. So it's no problem to make a mistake, anyone can make a mistake. The problem is when you make a mistake twice or when you don't correct the error. So we can all agree that even in these circumstances an extremely important, important sport. And there is and you said the measurements are based on analysis. Well, now, it's possible in these conditions that team sports can continue to be. However, one sport that is said to be impossible to deal with is sailing. Sailing child enters the hagar, its sailing equipment comes out, has no contact with anyone because the coach is following him at sea in the dinghy So I wonder who decided to take such measures and try to see [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to think about it a little bit and change it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20814	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarians, all of these are very specific elements that the Civil Protection Staff has decided not only but also the Resort Ministry. Officials of the Ministry of Sports and Tourism were involved in each sport's discussion. When it comes to sailing it is absolutely certain that sailors at sea if they are alone or two are not exposed to the dangers of spreading the virus, however, these sailors have to use means of transport, traffic, probably comrades before training, also after training may be joined, these are circumstances that further contribute to the possible spread of the virus. It is impossible for each life activity to determine a specific framework and predict what and how. In principle, however, most of this was evaluated, experts looked at and looked at risk options, so whether they were larger or smaller and had taken certain measures. Every unnecessary gathering and gathering is not, is not a desirable behavior and in this situation that we can only stand Hopefully it'll take a while. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20815	Thank you very much. And I thank my colleague Mrak Taritas for the commendation she gave to the parliamentary services and I thank all of them and the workers and the workers who really do their best, it is not easy for them and thank them on behalf of all MPs and MPs, and I am glad that you have commended and connected but don't let us say anything anymore. Let's move on, now it's time for fellow Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20816	Ministers of the Croatian people had great confidence in the headquarters. You lost that trust, you made politicized and contradictory decisions when you accused young people of not hanging out, you were doing selfie on facebook with stars, and the young were like the guilty. When it was most difficult, and when farmers punished themselves for pustrating their orics at the time, Prime Minister Plenkovic touched physically with a tennis player, he did not go into self-insulation, as if taking photographs. So you've lost your trust. A fellow who was missing for most of it, missing for most of it, you gave him permission to come. These are contradictory colleagues Bujevic spoke for a time while she was at headquarters while she was in the assembly, one day the mask could, the other day couldn't You've been politicizing, but we need to follow the measures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] but not punish the people. [[Thank you very much.]] It's your fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20817	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20818	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, no one has any idea of punishing the Croatian people, we have an idea to prevent the spread of viral disease, you may be right, I may have taken a picture with a certain lady, but it was a time when the number of newly infected was minor and I don't know how you put it in a situation with later associations and events in nightclubs that were detected as sources of spread of infection. So you have presented a series of elements that can of course be seen in another context, but you have failed to emphasize the essence, which is the consistency in considering the need to take measures, their evaluation, their change and the response to this great threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20819	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20820	Thank you. Dear Minister, I think we are all aware of the seriousness of the situation here, and it is not true that this colleague Bacic has stated that someone was against this law going according to an emergency procedure. We were against the way the law was passed without clear criteria. I'd ask you Ministers, I won't attack here today, don't I think Croatian citizens have enough sense to say that these measures are not political decisions. I disagree with my colleague Bul when he says that the problem is that the headquarters is politicized, the headquarters is a political body, you make political decisions among other things. Why? Because if you were only conducting epidemiological reasons then we'd shut down the shopping malls, but also the government has to take care of the economic aspect, the psychological aspect, the psychological state of the nation, the health aspect, so all of these decisions that you're making are political. I beg you don't just call on the profession anymore because you're also a politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20821	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20822	I fully agree with you, Mr. Parliamentary MP, the measures are based on the profession, but I have also stated on several occasions that they also look at other elements, mainly economically but not politically. What's broader is that everything can be given an epidemiological framework, every event, every event, every, every activity, of course not always absolute, but likely and that was what was the intensity in the very specific situations that were, but not predominant, they were exceptional. Most of our actions and actions were related to unorthodox life and activities of Croatian citizens, but some were both very specific and adapted to the situation with an epidemiological framework which I personally believe is much, much, much better than not to control and leave someone for their own free will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20823	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20824	First of all, we express solidarity and certainly support for all medical professionals, staff who are fighting for the lives and health of people who are suffering from this dangerous virus, and also more concern for people who are not being treated for Covid and who have to be treated for life. And I'm giving you criticism and your team because you didn't prepare this bill, you didn't do it nomotechnically. No, you've penalized one group of potential people, as you say to a minority who doesn't wear masks, as you know they're the greatest danger, and you haven't consistently implemented the measures yourself, you've now got the original hotspot with your permission of 7,000 barbershops and hair salons, and every hairdresser can come shave, cut, be at 5-10 cm, so let's deal with it, sir. The fact that you've put 25 people in churches in the cathedral both in chapels and we're going because you're unbeliefable. That's why we can't support it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20825	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20826	Thank you very much, so when it comes to churches and religious objects, it is, among other things, a spatial limit, so the number of square meters, so that the relationship is taken into account. In part, however, it could agree with you, but in phasers and employees wear masks and users wear masks, the simple pathway and spread of the infection has not been detected as much as in other activities covered by these measures. We thought this through, and it is certain that we did not choose the activities that would be reduced and that we would let this one out in the open. So it's a complex question and, of course, no one is infallible but we have extremely much time and time and thinking and energy professions and we have all invested in considering these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20827	And let's go to the last line, dear colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20828	Good afternoon, my question goes to what you said should limit unnecessary gatherings, unnecessary gatherings, and that's where I absolutely agree with you. But when you say that then they really suspect that tomorrow we're going to report neighbors having a party, and yesterday we had full cafes and restaurants where people without masks are, we're all here with masks, look at which distances, without a mask, we're communicating one foot from each other. My question is, are we under the blackmail of certain lobbys in society that require human lives to be sacrificed and that we come to a collapse of the health system because some need to earn a little more money or are what your colleague Krunoslav Capak said that I absolutely agree with, and it was not raised as political issues, too poor to take measures? If so, let's say from Germany, which is a little richer, we should get a little more money because we buy their products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20829	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20830	Thank you, I wouldn't have anything to add or take away, but you've decided more or less well except that we're under blackmail from anyone, we're really not, we're thinking and looking at ways to spread this virus, we're limiting what's more risky to spread it, we're not limiting what's less risky, and it's a taste of our behavior, you know, yeah. And the fact that someone didn't talk in a coffee shop with a mask is absolutely for extreme criticism, that's how it suits the spread of the virus, so here's my principle answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20831	I thank the Minister, you can return to your seat, thank you. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters want to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate. First of all, it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Zeljko Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20832	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public for infectious diseases are necessary because of the introduction of criminal sanctions, given the number of irresponsible individuals who threaten the health of others, not the entire population, not the citizens of Croatia. The fight against the crown of the virus is based on trust between citizens and the state. We are convinced that most citizens understand very well the circumstances in which we are, but we also think that such a tool is to say which represents this supplementary law, necessary given that certain irresponsible, reckless individuals, knowingly, deliberately endanger the health of others and lives. As a general legislative model of crisis management, the appropriate severity and urgency of decision-making in connection with the pandemic, which is characterized by rapid and unpredictable changes and the constant risk of exponential growth of previous changes and additions to the law, is the institutional model according to which the Civil Protection Staff acts and decides in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Ministry of Health and Health under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This institutional model enables the rapid implementation and implementation of two basic principles of action and decision-making during global pandemics as caused by Covid-19. This is the principle of efficiency and the principle of proportionality. In other words, the proposed model ensures that the measures taken meet the legitimate objectives set, primarily the protection of human life and health, but that these measures, as well as their intensity, are such that they strictly meet the needs of the given moment and only persist as long as the circumstances require that the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of citizens at all times be limited only to the extent necessary and which corresponds to the nature of the need for their restriction. I would especially like to emphasise this because the last few days, both here and here in this assembly and in the media, have raised several questions in the statements of some politicians. The issue of limiting civil and human freedoms is raised by these amendments to the law, the issue of constitutionality of this supplementation of this law is raised and the question of the height of the fines is raised. I think I've well summed up the three aspects that those who dispute this, are making this addition to the law. The most serious story of all is that it limits civil and human freedoms. So don't think that I'm pretentious if I'm going to paraphrases philosopher Hegel who said something like this, feel free to act until you threaten the freedom of another, or otherwise, my freedom reaches so far until it interferes with someone else's freedom. And that's exactly what we're talking about here, is whether some unconscious individuals knowingly, deliberately, aware of the executioners are intruding not only into freedom but into the lives of other citizens. Of course, one of the messages that I think citizens should take very seriously is that, although they are constantly trying to convince some of them the opposite of believing in the profession, that they should trust the institutions, that they should not be trusted by attractive and alleged experts who are actually engaged in this topic at all, that they should not be trusted by some politicians who do not have a mild relationship with medicine, but therefore bring everything into question, antivaccers and others who are challenging, destroying, harassing the public and false claims trying to bring down everything they are trying to do to preserve the health and life of Croatian citizens. Let's remember the development of all this. In the first wave we were among the best according to statistics in Europe, summer led to the relaxation of people, it seemed that the pandemic was stagnating and we stopped sticking to measures. Let's be honest, we didn't even think about the future at the time, even though we were aware that the fall and winter would bring the second wave and the health system was preparing for that wave because if it hadn't been prepared, we wouldn't have the situation in the health system that we have now. The relaxation of individuals was influenced, and we must say clearly, by various marginal groups of people who, by their public influence, spread lies that the crown is actually a harmless virus, like flu, cavities, some even mentioned, that it does not exist at all as it is invented, etc. As a doctor who works at the hospital every day, he wears two masks, a visor, and I can assure you that the coronary virus is very real, that it causes a very serious disease and that it kills people. Doctors all over the country use the last atoms of strength to treat the diseases that are growing in hospitals every day, and here we witness that some in despair even raise their hands upon themselves. It is no longer just old people, oxygen, and respirators that many young people and middle-aged people are involved. Let us not be selfish, when we talk about this law, we think about our fellow citizens, our loved ones, those who are less immune, older and powerless, people with malignant diseases, people who have transplanted organs, people with autoimmune diseases, people with allergic diseases, heart and blood vessels, each of us has them in his family or surroundings. These people didn’t deserve to be on the respirator for weeks, to fight for their lives just because it’s hard for someone to wear a face mask while buying groceries or while driving in public transport or likes to party and throw parties, regardless of whether they’re in the now banned gatherings of public or party organized in the so - called. closed private spaces. Consider whether we will protect those who knowingly break the law, enable the spread of the disease, or actually protect those who are threatened, who are vulnerable, who are sensitive, who lie in units of intensive care and are afraid for their health. That's what it's all about, ladies and gentlemen, in this supplemental law. We can politicize it one way or another, we can challenge our party's particular interests, our groups what the government is doing, but it's exactly what I'm telling you right now. What is required of all of us, what is required of citizens is actually minimal effort, minimal discomfort if we can even call it that. I've been wearing a medical mask all my medical life, like all the other doctors and medics, and I live with it. The addition of this law wouldn't have happened if some people were just a little more human. Unfortunately, because of a minority that still refuses to respect the measures that are Prescribing epidemiologists, all of us are under obligation and, accordingly, sanctioning non-compliance with obligations. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20833	Thank you, colleague Reiner. Now let's go to another debate, IDS counseling club esteemed colleague Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20834	... Today, we have seen changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases that have completely understood the past days caused great attention to the Croatian public, the media, but also to our citizens to whom the new restrictive measures envisaged by the amendments to the law will apply. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Although I am personally as a convinced liberal apriors against restrictions, punishments and restrictions of civil liberties, and the same point is of course my party, the Istrian Democratic Assembly, is clear that in these specific complex and very challenging times of global Covid-19 pandemics sometimes need to take certain unpopular steps, to make not exactly the decisions taken, to take moves which, in some other conditionally said normal circumstances, would not have even thought of. In this context, it is reasonable to support all those steps of measures and decisions to help fight the coronary virus and Covida-19, which will contribute to reducing the number of virus infected and to alleviate the pressure on the hospitals and the health system that we are aware of is literally shooting at the seams. In this context, it would be reasonable and logical to support and a legislative proposal that provides for measures and be somewhat restrictive but that will effectively help to combat the spread of the virus and their disease, and the disease caused by it. But it's now being asked a series of additional questions. How many new restrictive measures will these really help to combat viruses and diseases? Have they arrived at the right time in response to the current situation or are the government's alibi now for all of Prime Minister Plenkovic's past inactions, non-disclosures, squabbles and improvisations when it comes to fighting the coronary virus? Is it really necessary for citizens to pay the only price for the new outbreak that those who should not have tried to stop or at least slow down like the rest of Europe and the world? In recent weeks and months, we have listened to each other for several days, namely the Prime Minister and his complicity of the dying tones and the assurance that the situation is under control, that lockdown and restrictive measures will not be, although different indications and warnings have come from different sides. A good part of the professional public warned that the current situation requires a different attitude towards the crown crisis, that there is a need to introduce certain additional measures, and a good part of Europe and the world, and that restrictive measures have long begun to apply. But the Croatian government's response was how it manages the situation and knows what it does. And then, a very sharp complete turn. The ban on all catering activities, the abolition of all sports-recreation activities, various other restrictions and restrictions, and finally this last one in a series of ad hoc moves law that will be sarcastic if nothing else knocks citizens in the pocket and brings a few kunas into the state budget. So, the way that, after the long-term close-eyes to the obvious problem, key moves have been made in just a few days, from the last days of November to today when we have this so-called. The weekend law states that there was no and no systematic and thoughtful approach by the Croatian government in the fight against the crown of the virus. The way and principle in which these very important decisions are taken and withdrawn at this time and key moves for this country and its citizens show and prove that they are not based on an expert opinion, on objective imputations and views of the epidemiological and health professions are already motivated and timed almost exclusively by political not to say daily political circumstances and needs. Well, gentlemen, it seems that the water has reached the throat, we're choking on our own problems, and the straw of salvation should seem to provide us with closed cafes, gyms and a few fines for example wearing a mask under our noses. And in order to have anywhere to punish people for not wearing or wearing masks, we left open some malls and some more places. It is clear that such clearly improvised ad hoc thought-out moves in which we have a lot of indifference, inequality, and fundamental injustices some positive results can only give a case with a dose of happiness. But what they can certainly do, they can cause a justifiable and understandable revolt of people and be prepared to do so. Repression and punishment on the other hand may also give some results, people will in fear of paying the fines very likely more strictly adhere to some epidemiological regulations, likely to wear masks more consistently, it is doubtful how much the bans of socializing in private spaces will follow, but ultimately something that cannot be justified or understood. Instead of fighting a mutual friend, the enemy Covida-19 continues to hand in hand with their citizens, with the citizens of this country with mutual trust and respect for the government and the National Civil Protection Headquarters, the citizens' trust in this case obviously has been lost. So these current and any further moves will obviously have to argue with repression and punishment, and that's for sure never brought any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20835	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, distinguished MPs Pavliček and Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20836	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing the famous changes and additions of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. We are at the time of the crown of the pandemic that threw our economy on its knees, which threw our public finances on its knees, which led our health system almost to collapse, our doctors and medical staff are on the verge of power, and it is for all of us to try to contain this pandemic through responsible social behavior, through today the vaccine that is announced as soon as possible to return to so much normal. However, passing a law that will punish fellow citizens who do not wear masks or wear masks is simply unacceptable. To pass a law that will punish our fellow citizens who gather in their homes, which is a constitutional category and the home is invulnerable, we return to a dark period of totalitarian regimes. The top of all this is a public invitation from Minister Beros a few days ago for Croatian citizens to rat out their neighbours if they gather in their apartments, in their homes. Well, you, the honorable Minister Beroš, will not come to my yard in three months and with me, concrete the yard, but my first neighbor will do it. Not you, dear Minister Berosch, to look after my house for two days while I'm away from work, but my neighbor will. Not you, dear Minister, will take my neighbor to the ER when she has high blood pressure, but I will. Not you, dear ministers, next week, here we are, in Slavonia, going to help out on a pig's car with my neighbor, but I'll do it. Do not expect the Croatian people to be dolls at the end, that they are robots that you will manage on your remote control. Unfortunately, these amendments and the additions to the law will not result in any result in the suppression of the pandemic corona. You will create an additional revolution for Croatian citizens, insubordination on the ground. The reason is that this headquarters is all just untrustworthy, in the last few months you've made a series of contradictory decisions that you're killing yourself. Which are diametrically opposite of each other. Let's remember, just a few months ago in May, your closest associates, your colleague Capak said that masks do not protect against the pandemic's crown, that they have only psychological significance. Within a few months, you made a decision that masks are mandatory in all public spaces. Today, by this law, by supplementing the law, you will begin to punish people who do not wear the same masks or wear them wrong. This Civil Protection Command, unfortunately, suffered his defeat. Also, Prime Minister Plenkovic made it clear just weeks before the parliamentary elections that Croatia had won the Covida-19 pandemic. I'm afraid the Covida-19 pandemic has defeated this government and the Civil Protection Command. That's what the figures are for, unfortunately, inexorable. At the daily level of two to four thousand infected. Every day more and more hospitalized patients, every day more and more deceased with Covida-19 diagnosis. And that's why it's high time, Minister, that you recognize as the main people of the Staff and your mistakes, because whoever's doing this is wrong, not that you go from one bad decision to another bad decision. I'm afraid this law is one of the worst decisions you'll ever make. And I think it's high time that people who are not members of the ruling party, people of the profession, who will give a different opinion, but all with a view to defeating this pandemic together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20837	Here, the distinguished representative Zekanovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20838	Honorable Minister, Honorable Vice President, State Secretary. On February 5th, this year, I warned Andrej Plenkovic that there was a major crisis, a coronary crisis, a major epidemic, then I waved with a mask, I couldn't find gloves, but then at the pharmacy, in a few pharmacyes, and I wondered if we were ready. Are we ready for that huge epidemic that's coming? We've seen that we're ready, given that we have today, here, over 50 people who died of the coronary virus again. Isn't that right, Minister? Then there were fantastic measures, so then we, i.e. So then you shut down the entire school. What I am extremely sorry for were completely closed down and the churches, which unfortunately our bishops also agreed to. Do you know what it looked like in Croatian schools and Croatian churches at the 3rd month? You know how? Here's the thing. .../ The speaker shuts up at the pay phone. That's what it looked like, yeah. Some HDZ don't like this. Okay, HDZ is some kind of party of Christian Democrats, which is the hardest thing for them to do, which can't go to church, right? ... Yeah, here comes a colleague, I don't know who he is, he's in a mask. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He says I'm going for them. No, everyone goes for themselves, my friend. But I can pray for you, too. You know that, Christian Democrats? So, we have, we have crazy decisions of the Civil Protection Staff, crazy decisions, respected ministers, I'm wondering what's gonna happen next? Come on, be a little consistent and what your colleague Pavlichek said at one point, the one who does, the one who is wrong, and then come here and say we were wrong. We made a mistake when at one point we spoke masks don't protect, so we spoke shields. We were wrong to shut down the churches completely, we were wrong to shut down the schools completely, but that's said to be a man who does and makes mistakes, so we said here we were wrong because you're obviously wrong. It's she... I wanted to give, so my dear Christian Democrats go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20839	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS of Honorable Representatives Oreshković and Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20840	The Honorable Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. I think that today almost all of us can agree that the return of trust in crisis management is the key to any success, especially for implementing any measure. The introduction of stricter penalties cannot restore lost trust, this law can only be oil to fire that will strengthen resistance to implementing measures, not obedience, and that is the introduction to social chaos. In order to understand what I'm talking about, I need to set an example of two diametrical opposite events, not as an invitation to a fight, not with the goal of provoking you, but simply to paint the situation we're in. If the prime minister was willing to take the risk of heading a column of 10,000 people just 14 days ago, and today he sits at home infected, no matter where he is infected, and does this have anything to do with this event, with what arguments can he today be the authority that prescribes penalties for people like a river entrepreneur who was caught without a mask, alone in his own store, behind such a baldy, and at the end of his working hours? So to the entrepreneur, 30,000 kuna fines, the prime minister's political fee in Vukovar. And to be clear, Vukovar and his victims this year, we should have shown pitetism with a column of memories in our homes, and in this it should have been common throughout Croatia, and not only those who, despite the epidemic without a mask, walked in its streets, that we did so today may not have listened to the Minister and you, Mr. Reiner, talking about irresponsible marginal groups, about this minority of irresponsible ones, for which today we will all be subject to restrictive penalties and restrictive measures of very questionable constitutionality. Thus, double criteria are not and must not become a basis to which we will reach for new penalties. The most difficult and the greatest division in our society has been divided into privileged and all of us. The way the headquarters and the government have managed this crisis so far, that division only deepens and evidence should not be sought far back. How much punishment, compared to the Rijeka entrepreneur, was given to a state secretary who violated these drunken measures, insulted the police, broke state inventory and called for his preferential treatment? He resigned, but was commended, commended. And the punishment for violating measures, resisting police and breaking inventory? Nothing. The Rijeka entrepreneur behind the plexiglas for not wearing a mask at that time of 30,000 kuna. Is that the measure of return to trust? It's not. The proposal to introduce new penalties in the emergency procedure, in fact, acknowledged that between headquarters and citizens, trust has been permanently lost and that I can no longer manage this crisis. And now all we have left is to decide which side of the plexiglas we're going to find ourselves with, the privileged one or the other one where the sanctions are imposed, as to who and how and how, as anyone wishes. So we can't put this situation on the burden of citizens and train them to be strict because we're putting them in a situation like they're a lottery, but even the lottery has fairer criteria, is there at least everyone in the drum is the same. And when the government makes its own rules, then we have two drums, one for them, and the other for all of us. Therefore, before any sanctions are imposed on us from the Centre and GLAS, we believe it is necessary to give a serious, unlilysed and huge advantage of restoring trust, which requires both sides of the Assembly Hall and ruling and opposition. The pandemic of the Coronal Virus is our common problem, when it is not asked about the party card and, of course, as an opposition with the expected criticism, we must not now and we will not be the evil critics who are laying their feet on the ruling side because on the agenda it is not a question of who is stronger, who has more parliamentary hands, and even the usual political competition, it is now about the lives of citizens and survival or the breakdown of the economy. We do not call for any deepening of each other's conflicts, we offer help. The problem he's escalating like this won't get us out of our new sentences, and that's why we're against this law, so we'll be pulled out of any cooperation if there is. Citizens must again start to respect effective and thoughtful measures of headquarters, not because they fear sanctions, but because they believe that they protect their health and the health of their loved ones. We call once again to replace the existing model by forming a new national unity headquarters to restore the trust that the existing headquarters is no longer and can no longer return it to anything. We call on Andrej Plenkovic to start contacting opposition representatives today, starting with Peđa Grbin as president of the main opposition party and then others in turn. We certainly don't push ourselves into the front row, but we're proposing a model that will pull us out of this crisis together that doesn't yet control the end, and everything else is in chaos that we're going to have a hard time getting out of. And once again I want to say for the end, the fact is all countries have a problem with escalating the number of infected at one point, but only we have our specialty, something that is really visible only in the Republic, and these are these double standards and double criteria and double standards that make the defense system from the crown fall. So, instead of penalties, we propose to redefine the powers and role of headquarters as well as its composition. Let us indeed turn it into an advisory body involving real experts, a much wider political diapasone than the representatives of a single political party, put the possibility of influence and parliamentary opposition in that body, of course with the support and hinterland that would be available in the president of the state. Everything else will be said by Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20841	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Anka Dark Taritash, the video link.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20842	Thank you very much, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, let's state a few facts. The fact is that Croatia is getting worse as far as Covida-19's disease is concerned, from a relatively successful country at one point where HDZ and its governments normally place us in some other areas among the worst in Europe. In public, there is growing fear and psychosis especially in older people and in this government and headquarters we strongly resent and consider it a politically very problematic game that under the cover of people's fear for their own health and lives, undemocratic behavior and self-will. What's the matter? Regardless of the measures, their possibilities, regularity or not, the problem is the way this law is adopted. We are from the area of recommendation and application with steps into the area of fines for things such as non-carrying masks or public or private gatherings. It is a huge step towards limiting human rights and requires proper behaviour in accordance with the Constitution. So let me once again point out that it would be quite clear. At this point it is even irrelevant whether the measures are good or not, it is irrelevant as the promoter considers them, the point is that our Constitution is very clear when it comes to limiting human rights. And his text and his spirit clearly tells us that to limit rights needs wider support. And that's all we want to happen. But of course the ruling will do anything to show that things are different. I think at this point it's clear to all of us that we're really in one very, very specific situation. The circumstances are when pandemic management is absolutely out of control. And then instead of being prepared for the fall in the spring, I remind you that the whole spring we've been kind of not going to say scared but warned that we're going to have a different fall, and instead of controlling it, it's reaching for the method of punishment. What I want to stress and repeat Croatia is in special conditions and I think that no matter what side of this assembly it is no longer doubted, but this is a moment when we all need to think carefully because we are taking a huge step in the gray zone. In the area of possible problems, we introduce penalties. We seem to be being severely punished and restricting human rights. And it's completely irrelevant that any of us individually thinks about it, our Constitution is very clear and is looking for a way to pass this law that you don't recognize. Think about it. When there was spring all the laws that were tied to the crown or Covid-19 were brought much more than 2/3 of the number of hands you had for it. And so the message we want to send, don't step on the Constitution, don't step on the democratic order of the Republic of Croatia, this is a gray zone that can be broken into all of us, and we don't understand at all why this amendment and the addition of the law didn't come within reason, but as anything else hastily with a decision over one weekend and is appropriate to a certain moment, not systematically and rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20843	Next debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20844	Dear Mr. Minister, President of the Assembly, we have before us the seventh bill on the pandemic of the fight against the epidemic. The sixth law was passed at the beginning of this year and the question arises, which is why after six months we have to pass a new law? Today in the Republic of Croatia, 80 of our fellow citizens die on average, sick 3 to 4,000, and we have a bill that is before us. At the beginning of there 11.3. when it was declared by the World Health Organization of the pandemic, the same day Croatia declared a pandemic, and our first sufferer was 15 days before it seemed 15.1., 15.2. or 25.2. pardon me. So now there are questions when we see it, what did we do in the spring after we had 30 patients a day? We've done a lot of good things. I must admit that I, as a doctor at the time, was very pleased even with a single dose of pride in this country where many things didn't work, I was proud as a doctor that some things were well set up, that we had well controlled the disease and that there was certain that there would be no large pandemic in Croatia. However, it is precisely felt, we can do a reconstruction of the moment when politics became involved and became dominant in the headquarters, even though even in this law the one who wrote it is the naked thing to the end. So it says that HZJZ has proposed to the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health to make decisions on the formation of headquarters, while at the same time the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be the one to oversee these processes. With that decision, the team enrolled in the health minister's law, the director of the public health care office and the chief of staff have been appalled by every responsibility for the implementation of these measures. The prime minister headed with the government has taken responsibility for the measures. What did we have in spring measure? We have had a severe, rough attack on the economy so that, at one point, Croatia has kneeled economically, and as a result, in the first six months of this year, we have had a deficit in the budget of 20 billion kuna. And the summer came, the prime minister declared victory on the crown. What did we do over the summer? Nothing. We went swimming and let's not say that all countries in Europe go through the same procedure and have the same problems, because it's simply not true. While we were taking a bath this summer, a model country in Germany, you know what she was doing? She has organized many courses, educations for both the public and her population, but also for doctors. We are presented that Croatia has 8 hundred respirators. Croatia has 8 hundred respirators, but Croatia does not have a hundred doctors capable of including these respirators. As a result, we are the worst country in the European Union in which more than 90% of the patients involved in the respirator will never be separated from it and paid with their heads. We are a professional, organisational, financially devastated system. I would say that another proof of our professional and organisation, the devastation of being one of the few countries of the European Union in which the coronaryvirus has entered the largest systems. We were all infected by the KBCs and the patients were treated there, and I can show you when one of our prominent doctors in the 3rd month called on the government and the headquarters to make precise guidelines on how the patient who is a composure on the crown will go through the health system. None of it was done. All of our KBCs were infected. And what's very important as a result of our KBCs being infected is that our patients with malignancies who die annually over 15 thousand, our patients with heart attack and cardiovascular diseases who die annually 24 thousand and our patients with diabetes who die annually 4 thousand as a result could not reach their doctor. And be careful, the public is looking at the entire Croatian public. Don't embarrass yourself after me, so get out and say it's not true. Every family knows exactly how she couldn't get to the doctor. On the other hand, public health has been scheduled. We in Croatia have a situation that this year has been discovered for 70% less malignant diseases in the population than in all these years. These people are wandering around. They did not recognize and will pay with their head, their health, and their life just because they could not reach the doctor. And now we have this seven in front of us. The pandemic protection law. I'd say that law was made by pushing us directly into corrupt stores. Imagine a law that says that people who do not comply will be paid from 5 to 10 thousand kuna and other legal persons from 10 to 40 thousand kuna. Who's this guy in the system who's gonna say that someone's gonna blame ten thousand kunas and someone's gonna be 40 thousand kunas? Inspectors? The ones who closed the restaurant to the man because he put a table in front of the front door so he could put a piece of meat in for someone to take home? They're going to estimate whether someone is 10 or 40 thousand kuna? Do violence against the system. We're only dealing with corruption this year in the Parliament. I will remind you of Krš Padjana, companies without even one employee with 26 billion kuna traffic, insurance houses that are paid to the Ministers of HZZO only 48 million kuna and only serve in this item 240 million kuna and Janaf. At the same time, we have 240 thousand completed our fellow citizens who, with all the troubles of pandemics, epidemics, inability to reach a doctor, have a problem with being completed. I would like to pray, recommend, appeal and demand that the political headquarters be rapidly dissolved, to appoint a headquarters where experts, doctors from all parties from all over the Parliament, and above all belong to the Assembly Health Committee. And don't say that it's not as effective that we're not as fast as the headquarters. If that does not happen, the prime minister will also take responsibility for the minister, and for the director of the Public Health Institute and for the headquarters, and will have to suffer consequences because Croatia will likely experience a severe financial collapse within the next few months. And don't say you didn't know that. I believe in reason. I personally believe that Minister Beros has been capacitated to do so, but some minister must give the green light so that he can carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20845	The next debate is on behalf of HSLS and Reformist Representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20846	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The People's Party of Reformists believes it is extremely important that we go with these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. I spoke of the crisis-related situation caused by the coronary virus decisions of the national headquarters, the struggle of the headquarters of the Varazdin County, and the necessity of introducing measures in this House of Highs several times. On November 19th, I warned at that time that there was an ever-present ignoring of numbers and facts, total pulsism and the submission of certain groups, and the crucial conduct of the diametric action at that time by 90% of the EU member states. In fact, while the EU Member States had already taken certain measures in place as these measures tightened and introduced new ones, we have interpreted that measures of such species do not produce results, that numbers fall, that numbers stagnate, that the measures we have are optimal and thus orderly. So the headquarters had its interpretations that were not usually consistent with the interpretations that gave all the other professions, epidemiologists, hospital directors, doctors, medical staff. They all said something else, the condition is hard, the hospitals are filling up, the respirators are full of measures, do something. We in Varazdin County were especially screaming because our figures clearly showed that the trend of growth was the trend of those in hospitals and also those on respirators. A similar situation was also in Međimurje County, which is behind us today the second worst in Europe, Krapina-Zagorje County the third worst in Europe, so I am not talking about the EU, I am talking about Europe as a whole, and Licko-Senj County is the fourth. In the first 10 worst regions in Europe, as many as six from Croatia. Requests and requests to the national headquarters, the headquarters of the Varazdin County sent for the first time the 3.11. when the number of earners per 100,000 people and the week were 570 infected. The headquarters refused our measures at that time. The second time we asked for stricter measures, when the week was 900, only when we came to thousands of people infected, and thus became the worst region in Europe, the national headquarters accepted our measures. Soon thereafter, the measures were introduced for all of Croatia, or at the time when the number of infected was 530 per 100,000 inhabitants, so twice as much as it was at that time in Varazdin County. Only to compare the German region with a total lockdown, so not all of these measures were introduced when their number of people infected at 100,000 was 300, but we certainly support the introduction of measures because it was clearly shown that they had produced results everywhere in the world, so the countries that had taken measures immediately put the situation under control and already in some of them in a situation that they could take certain measures and relax. We're unfortunately still very far from it. The numbers in Croatia continue to rise and will grow for another time because, of course, measures take weeks to start yielding results. At this moment within the EU in the last month, a 35% decline has been recorded while in the same month, Croatia has registered 45% of the infected. So in the process that we are now conducting, it is extremely important that we achieve an understanding of the overall situation by our citizens. The delay in measures to both the last literally and the statement that measures should not be tightened, should not be feared by citizens, this certainly did not contribute to raising citizens' awareness of the importance of respecting the measures. But if we don't get this wrong, there's not all responsibility at headquarters. Calling on responsible persons such as some mayors and MPs to directly disrespect measures like we unfortunately had in the Varazdin County, whose ringleader remains Mayor of Varazdin Ivan Chehok, who even intervened at the national headquarters to avoid introducing the measures at the time when the Varazdin County was the third worst in Europe. It has also created confusion among our citizens and has raised the need to respect the measures. Furthermore, media warming of continuous publications on interpretation and the purpose of measures by many newly-roasted experts, analysts, epidemiologists from various professions and especially businesses does not also contribute to the understanding of the justification of measures by our citizens. Finally, there is certainly a question of responsibility for locals, especially county headquarters, because at a time when the government finally decides to introduce a measure and convince citizens to respect them, and since everything I have just stated is not easy at all, messages from local and county headquarters that measures are not needed and public calls for the abolition of certain measures are again a splash system. Statements, we are a step ahead of the virus, the catering facilities should not be closed, we do not need preparation and tents, at a time when you are second and at one point the worst in Europe and when you send your patients to Zagreb because there is no room and conditions in your hospital anymore, to be clear here I am talking about Međimurje County is irresponsible and dangerous behavior. Just to clarify, the responsibility here is divided between the national headquarters and the county headquarters because the national headquarters should propose measures locally. We did so and took over the concentrated attacks of all those from either politics or the economy who tried to put their private interests ahead of the general good. Proposing to introduce restrictions is neither popular nor grateful, but if you are among the most vulnerable in Europe, then you have to decide on them. It's not the idea to let doctors, epidemiologists fight this war on their own. Those who are responsible, and these are those who lead the headquarters both county and national, must assume political responsibility. New fogs with the goal of further confusing citizens are now being created by tents. All patients in Varazdin County are located in hospitals, not in halls, not in hotels and not in tents, they are placed in a hospital circle, connected to oxygen just to be an emergency transit fuse. So we can understand that there is a need to divide certain groups by locals, and in particular some county headquarters and specifically mayors, but given the figures we have, it is important to know where the policy ends, and where the fight for the health and lives of our citizens begins. And to clarify another thesis that is constantly moving through, which is that we are in the Varazdin County for lockdown, we are against the closure of the economy, and that is why we have proposed measures that we have closed 3% of the economy, and that the remaining 97% of the economy may continue to work, to continue to operate the industry, factories, plants, to keep companies alive so that they can continue to work and to pay workers wages. As all EU countries except Estonia recognized that the hotspots of catering facilities and activities where there is direct physical contact in a closed area for a long time, this is how the closure of these facilities along with a whole series of far more stringent measures introduced by almost all EU Member States, and that is what we in the Varazdin County first proposed. As far as these concrete amendments are concerned, the addition of the law we fully agree on. On 23 October, therefore, the headquarters of the Varazdin County submitted a proposal to the national headquarters requesting that this be determined, to determine a framework that defines and allows for the rapid imposition of sanctions in the event of breach of the decisions of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. Measures are defined to include restrictions, but also compensation to the economy. What we are looking for is the public announcement of the number of people infected at 100,000 and to establish clear rules on which numbers we take what measures, when we sharpen them, as well as when we weaken them and of course we can do it towards the counties or regions, because, as we see, we are not all in the same situation. This proposal and this model actually have most EU countries and we are once again here and we are proposing to the headquarters this way. All those provisions of amendment and addition of this law are important and necessary. As the threat is serious, and as we face a whole series of obstructions and slowing down the need to introduce measures, the prescribed levels of penalties are optimal. We only had 10 people in our county who were infected walking around, those exist throughout Croatia, and so I think the issue of sanctions at this point is not and should not be a question, and in particular I do not think it is a time to quote about the figures. In Croatia, we have politicized this health crisis and we are on our way to having the pandemic completely polarise our society. And that is why I call for these amendments and the amendments to the law to be voted unanimously and thus to give a message to our citizens that measures should be respected in order to protect the health and lives of all of us, but also to help the health system, doctors, medical staff who are indeed at the limit of endurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20847	Next is the Club of Representatives of those Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Selak-Raspudić will speak, and together with the first respected representative Rasdic or vice versa All right, here you go, Your Honor. [[Intruder: I am Rasputic, and she is Selak-Raspadić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20848	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all know of sports examples in which the menu, coach of the team, manager as the leader of England says after winning his team says I won, and when he loses or loses, we lose, and in a worse case you lose. At the end of May 26th of this year, Prime Minister Plenkovic, in a good situation which may have been overpaid, will show whether lockdown was needed at the time and how much it would cost us, has been gloriously stated that his government won the Covid-19. And today at the beginning of the 12th month after this assembly had not received a single report from the headquarters on its work that would be discussed would be responsible and the guilt would be transferred to everything. We won't agree to that. I think the opposition has been quite constructive so far, you've seen the figures when it was voted on amending the law that for over 100 MPs, so the 2/3 of the majority have already been there and I haven't noticed that any of the opposition has been scavenging and used this difficult situation for its cheap political points. That is why it is not good to avoid the assembly and why it is so panicking to run from 2/3 of the majority, for which it is good and boasts Article 16. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day An alarming thing is when they already refused to activate Article 17. Why was it not followed by the article of the Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases, Article 47, where the Minister of Health Beros would prefer to take measures personally, but decided to follow the article of the Civil Protection System Act, Article 22, and managed by the headquarters and Mr Bozinović. I don't think it's good. I'm afraid these proposed measures and penalties are a smoke release in order to retroactively, and I can see that you like to act or retroactively to sort things out or to interpret that you have binco stuff like, we heard now the Constitutional Court has decided that headquarters and future Bianca can do whatever they want, of course it's not. So, retroactively, by releasing smoke, she wants to give some sense of seriousness, so I guess it's been serious for the past few months, which we obviously see in a state that's not, that's not the case. The problem is that the measures are very common in themselves contradictory, so why, for example, you can play the first football league, and you can't row or athletics in the open, why can't you play the first basketball league, can't county or cadet, why coffee can give gas stations and bakeries, and can't cafes that are specialized for that, why people can't be more people in a closed shopping mall, and they can't be on terraces in Dalmatia where there were 17 degrees and the sun up until some day, where families eat mostly at the same table or friends who communicate anyway. So on the one hand, contradiction on the other side of arbitration. It doesn't apply to everything. The prime minister can touch physically infected Djokovic and not go into self-insulation, we have a case of Hrebac not to repeat it again and the latest irony of the Sucic case at noon closes the catering facilities throughout the country, at noon and 20, and 30 of your secretary of state is in such a violation. This creates a sense of confusion in people, which in addition to this legal uncertainty and arbitration all together leads to a general bad state in which I am not sure how much these measures can be applied and implemented and that they can give satisfactory results. What Maria Selak-Raspadić will talk about are some concrete measures not to just stay on the criticism and criticism and lessons from other countries, because what we lack here is data and analysis. It's already been a long, ten months of crown harassing the world and we have clear experiences and figures and examples from other countries that we can then apply, analyze so that we know, we have some frameworks of what we're working on and how we measure results. These are just some of the reasons why we feel that legally, constitutionally, this is not all that the headquarters does is good and to the end. It is scandalous to repeat that we do not have a report in the Parliament for 10 months on the work of headquarters, that the measures are contradictory, arbitral, and all of these are reasons why we cannot easily support this way of amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20849	It will continue on behalf of the club, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20850	I can't help but notice that the eyes of the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament of Reiner laughed a moment ago. I regret that President Jandrokovic is not here to return because I did not have the opportunity to reply to his unnecessary remarks that I should look people in the eye as I do otherwise. I'd like to ask him if he can look into the eyes of Sanader who created him, Karamarka and Jadranka Kosor? But maybe that's less important now? Perhaps now the better question is whether they will be able to look into the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are healthy and who will suffer medically and economically because of this epidemic not because he refused to do something earlier, but because he still refuses to comply with the demands, proposals and objections of the opposition and to put themselves above-party when the interests and protection of the health of our citizens are at stake? Now I'm gonna say something about what we're offering. The first thing I have to say is that we won't waste time criticizing what was missed and what could be done. That doesn't make sense now. The opposition is already wasting too much time on criticism rather than showing its concrete proposals that it can and wants better. There is one comparative advantage in being late for measures, which is that we could promote their effectiveness abroad. Not just abroad. We could have analyzed what was going on with us. We were able to promote what measures the citizens had taken, which faced intense conflicts with regular measures, which had a very harmful effect on the economy, which best contributed to the protection of citizens' health. These experiences can be used and implemented in the current measures we bring, which already exist in other countries. We haven't heard that kind of analysis. We expect it before we can even consider introducing any measures. Two, I'll do it one more time. Exclusion. Those citizens whose jobs will be closed, those citizens who will suffer themselves or who will suffer their loved ones deserve to hear on the basis of which figures - these figures do not have to be exclusively epidemiological, they can refer to the economic situation -- on which the figures will continue to be closed, on which the figures will be delayed, and on which basis the figures will be able to live freely again. These figures are entitled to be required at a time when we are talking about a potential serious threat to the Constitution, the right to freedom, the right to a home and all other rights arising from the Constitution. What we're also looking for is a regional approach. It has so far proved to be the most effective, especially in Croatia where the climate is important, in which we currently have a situation that in Zagreb every 27 people are infected, while in Istria every 60 people are. If the same measures were worth the same to them, it would be as if we said that the measures as such had no effect. You will first try aspirin and vice versa to treat someone who has serious bacterial inflammation with an antibiotic rather than aspirin. That's the logic we're looking for in the application of these measures. If other countries of Europe can give citizens arguments why some measures introduce and support them with a thorough analysis, I don't know why we couldn't hear it today from Minister Beros who said he would be happy to give it to us, who said it existed? But not a single parameter in that analysis, which is specific, has been cited. What we also want to warn you is that in this speech that we could hear earlier from the HDZ Club there was too much pathetic and too much abstract talk about evil people and the enemy debt. That's no way to think about this epidemic. Wearing masks isn't there to signal virtue and show someone we're better people. Some people don't wear masks. Some because they're lazy, some because they're arrogant, some because they're tired, some because they've forgotten. But our goal is not to criminalize them, but to win over if we really want this threat to decrease. So let us stop talking about the evil of another and think about how we will explain to the other person the benefits of such measures. It's final. You asked for our trust. You're introducing new measures. We will give you that trust because we want to be constructive and we have suggestions if you will return that same trust. Therefore, we will put an amendment to this Amendment to the Law, an amendment that expects you to provide the Parliament with a monthly report on new measures and this report on the basis of which it will determine whether these measures will be extended, tempered or serviced. If you want that trust back to us with the same trust that we can explain to our citizens why we are asking them to do this and when this threat will stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20851	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20852	Thank you, Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of Article 238. The Honorable representative Selak Rasdic demeaned and insulted the President of the Croatian Parliament. It's untasty to comment on who created who. Who made you colleagues Selak Rasdic? Did the Fifth Day create you because we had to pay public service for you to become a political star? Did Nino Rasdic create you or did your father and your mother create you? I recommend you take a book, a textbook in high school Ethics philosophy of morality. You're much, much more subdued by philosophy than I am. What you're doing is for every conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20853	Thank you very much, this one is true that MP Selak Rasdić was actually an ad homeim very, at the very least, inappropriately speaking about the president's assembly team more than it was rude to talk about someone who wasn't here, who was until recently here and who could be said that she wanted to. So this one I am asking you to now, I am not going to give a warning this moment, but I am asking you to stop hurting the Rules of Procedure when it is not appropriate. If we continue with this, we will continue this session that will take a long time anyway, and then I will apply those measures that I can apply. I see two injuries to the Rules of Procedure of the Pari Rasdic, three pardons. First of all, I can give you my word, my colleague, is it? Yeah, for now I'm still presidening, so I'll give you my word or I won't give you my word... And you as a husband should defend the lady or I can discuss it with her, right? [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] This one I'd like to say to you, the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic, that you've allowed me and that you've been polite and listened to what I'm saying. Here you are, distinguished MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20854	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20855	Okay, I'm asking you to stop this one because I'm gonna start really giving warnings. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20856	Thank you. 238th Insultation and Insultation. counterpart Selak Rasudiæ did not claim unlike Mr Jandrokovic who claimed that she did not look people in the eyes, that Mr Jandrokovic could not look Mr Sanader, Kosor or Karamark in the eyes, she only said that she would like to ask him that she was there if she was sorry, to ask him if he could look them in the eyes? So that's one thing, that's one important difference. And that Mr. Celic, a university professor who went out on an independent list that was below the threshold at the time, had her own mandate...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20857	Thank you very much, uh...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20858	... asking the question here who created her I think she speaks best of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20859	...what you're saying is you're way out of time first, I'm giving you a second warning. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20860	Now, please don't use your position to silence people, you should have apologized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20861	Based on Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20862	You said go ahead, and after a minute you said go ahead again, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20863	On the basis of Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20864	Take away my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20865	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20866	Please take away my word, you told her, and then you attacked her for why she got up, to say yes after a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20867	On the basis of Article 241(1), I give you the distance from the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20868	I'm leaving the session voluntarily, and you guys get some sleep, gather your concentration, and then chair, this is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20869	And you go outside. The Honorable representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20870	I am Mr. Grmoy's representative, Honorable Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20871	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20872	I'd like you to take a break to concentrate a little, come to yourself, maybe get some fresh air, see how nice snow falls out there, so let's continue this session. So, I asked for an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. Col. Celić treated his colleague Selak Rasudic as a sexist about who created her, who created her, who created you, who created you when you were talking about others who created whom.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20873	You've exceeded your time, and you've spoken at all unrelated to the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my warning. We can continue our work now or we can continue with the pseudo injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Then let's take it in a row. [[Intruder: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20874	Injury is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20875	What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20876	I think Hello [[Intruder: Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20877	I think I'm giving the word in that order. the people who've hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[I got the word, so wait a minute.]] And he's probably confused, but okay, okay. Dear Representative Bulj first, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20878	Thank you very much. Kolega Celic injured Article 238, where his colleague, Rasudiæ Selak, indicated that someone had invented a 5th day or a show, and she was only showing herself what President Jandrokovic said, to look into the eyes and then reminded him to look into the eyes of Sanader, Jadranka Kosor and Karamark, whom he had always peeked behind his back. She didn't say anything else but quote, and you guys hurt the Rules of Procedure, you hurt the Rules of Procedure. and you're chairing a little vacation because you're starting a wrong session. [[Intruder: Good this...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20879	Well, that's why I'm giving you a warning. Uh, here you are, the esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20880	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20881	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20882	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 236, the Honored Chairman, each time you chair the session, and when MPs start to report for damages to the Rules of Procedure, you start to convince them that they should not do so. Article 236 says, the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives the order as soon as he asks, and you don't exactly do it. Who are we going to warn now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20883	I think I'm doing it. I won't give you a warning, but I do. I work regularly. Yes, of course. But I'd like to appeal again now. Please, let's stop these pseudo injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Can we continue to work or insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then the honourable representative Shimičević first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20884	Here is my thanks to the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 has been injured. The married couple Rasudić insults the president of the Croatian Parliament who is not present here. He insults his colleague Cellić for no reason and, in fact, from this Croatian Parliament, they make some theatre of absurdity, and they do not talk about the subject and those things concerning Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20885	Okay. That's settled. I'm giving you a warning just like I'm going to give every next one that comes up on the same subject because we need to work. Our citizens sent us here to discuss the law, not to argue with each other with the pseudo-injure of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20886	Yes, we were chosen by the citizens. But since there's no other option but through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to use 238. They didn't choose here to treat women sexually. Mrs. Selak Rasudic is no one's wife. She's a parliamentary representative here. It seems to bother some of you here if women have their own brains and opinions, so either they're hysterical or they're somebody's wives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20887	Okay. I give you a warning. Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20888	... Chairman, do I hear from you? [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] [[We can't hear you.]] Here's your thanks. [[Intruder Reiner: Now yes.]] So, I'll tell you what I said the other day. The way you chair this session as well as Mr. Jandrokovic goes through one form of mockery with a double... And they actually point to one of the times this people fought long ago. [[You don't understand.]] I'll tell you again. This duration has its own age, and it will eventually end. I accept the warning, but I agree with my colleagues that you really need to take a break and get some rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20889	Okay. I'm giving you a warning, too. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20890	Yes, I am returning to the violation of Rules of Procedure of Article 238 of your Honored Chairman. In response to his demeaning mention of father, mother, and husband, you react by calling it a pseudo-injure of the Rules of Procedure. If this isn't a demeaning parliamentary representative, please warn me what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20891	And you didn't mind that you were talking about the President of the Parliament who wasn't here? Let's get this over with. Who else is there? Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You are also some MPs, it seems to me that my colleague Simičević injured Article 238 at the time you called your colleague and colleague, MP and representative a married couple. The fact that they are a couple in the Croatian Parliament does not allow you, either as vice president of the Parliament, or other colleagues and colleagues, to be treated in this way. They are the same in this Croatian Parliament as we are a representative and representative, and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure in that section.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20893	I always speak to a respected representative and respected representative, and that's one fact. I don't think we're going to run from facts, am I? Here's your esteemed representative, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20894	Your Honor, I've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure for your conduct. Namely, by giving the warning, you injured Article 239. Rules of Procedure. Representative Boric presented her vision of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. She didn't step away from it. She spoke exclusively and only about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you personally disagree that the Rules of Procedure have been injured does not give you the right to give counsel a warning. The warning can only be given if someone is talking about another subject, not the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Boric didn't do it. The way you run the session is simply embarrassing and scandalous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20895	The way I run the session, you might like it or not like it. One day, maybe you'll be sitting here. Probably not so soon, but honestly, I totally don't care if you think it's, whether I'm running a good session or not. So I suggest we go to work for what we're here for. Next is SDSS Representatives' Club and Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20896	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Listen, I'm gonna leave the mask on my colleagues, listen to my business remarks, and I've been thinking about whether or not to pick up. By spending time in this hall and air in this office for business remarks that were quite trivial I must say from first to last except maybe one, we have actually denied ourselves the opportunity to work more seriously and safely in this Chamber and on what law, on a law that should protect all citizens in this country, and we should, by example, show ourselves that we are able to practice it in this House, and we are not that. I'm not denying you freedom of speech, I'm going to finish in a few minutes, so report for damages to the Rules of Procedure as long as you want or if someone here is my wife could inherit me after this pay phone as I see it has been sent by the usual practice here in the Parliament. What I mean is, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, this is a serious issue that we're discussing today, as far as I'm concerned, the club I'm a member and the party I'm running, if we had this debate and this law on the agenda a few weeks ago, it would have been better. If the provisions proposed by this law to amend the laws were proposed by the Government a few weeks ago, we would certainly welcome Christmas and Christmas holidays and New Year's Eve in a more certain situation than we would have welcomed. So, we're making changes that we already know today that we're probably going to have to improve them, which means we're going to have to tighten them up. And what are we doing? We turn our Parliament into a cafe that we can't go to, we turn a place into controversy about things that for this story are about protecting the health and life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia irrelevant, who is the man, who is the woman, who has been to which party, when, for this topic today is irrelevant. For someone else, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, but for this topic you're younger here in the Parliament, don't blame me on this kind of speech and language, it's irrelevant. We're wasting time and we're wasting air that means health. What do I want to say? So, as for limiting labour, it had to be done as far as we're concerned and more extensively than the government predicted, but the question is, would we hold on to it, how long we could hold out? And now it's extremely important to understand that a good part of the motions of these provisions are not to be called upon by sanctions, so not all drivers of your colleague and colleagues who think so about sanctions for those who don't wear masks will be punished for driving because they will stick to the way they should drive, so not everyone will be immoral if they get on a tram and get closer to a colleague than it is to a lady or a lady or a lady than public morality requires. We're used to living with restrictions, it's part of a culture, it's part of a social relationship, so now we're doing it when it comes to public health when we're in confusion, when we're not sure what's good, which is not good for us individually and for society as a whole. That's what this law wants to do, not to fill the budget, not to punch someone in the pocket because they don't have a mask or wear it wrong. As for human rights issues, human rights restrictions, we are particularly sensitive to this, and we should be those who are sensitive to it in the Assembly because we are a society that has recently come out of periods of fundamental violation of human rights, including the right to a home, including the right to work and the right to earn money. But what we're talking about here isn't an attack on that. No one's going to take anyone's apartment and house, no one's going to break into the door, no one's coming because family members have gathered, even though we know that family gatherings are one of the most basic sources of the spread of infection. And others know that, too, also Norwegians who also have more restrictive measures than us to 10 family members twice a week. They are not sensitive to human rights, and the country is among the first in the world to promote the culture of human rights and peace. So the meaning of this provision, like some law professors we follow and read rightly says, is deterrence, not sanctioning. If someone were to abuse the fact that ten family members or close friends came into the house and invited the police, I would suggest that Mr. Ministers and gentlemen representatives of the ministry sanction it for harassment and false reporting. But if some fact that you can't gather in a cafe turns an apartment into a place to throw a party or I don't know what else in these circumstances, it's irresponsible to your own health and public health. This epidemic is dangerous. After the Spanish flu in war circumstances and without such a health system, without such possible medical treatments, be sure that in as long as this pandemic lasts, we will have much, much bigger victims than we have in both the number of patients and the number of deaths. And that's why we have to keep our own health system, people who work there so they don't collapse. And you know what I'd love to do if instead of us having these pointless business records and discussing who's wife and who helped them politically get to a place, you know what I'd like to discuss? To discuss how to establish control, that the money that employers will receive for employees to get to those who need that money for whom it is intended, and not to hear that some who have received that money when an employee says to them: “Well, for me, you have received 4,000 kunas. ” I got them for myself." Do the government and the minister control it? He's not in control. And to those who are screaming and underestimating that contribution, I would show them, so I would practice on it as much as and how a state manages a crisis like this. Let's do this because it endangers the serious circumstances of life, and the health and right to profit that people have, because the state assures them. And someone's been taking that stuff away from them. So the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club will support this bill. It's a shame we didn't discuss it here before and we could adopt it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20897	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative of Glamuzine, what's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20898	Article 238 in 2 points has been injured. Namely, now that the clock was up to 6 minutes and 4 seconds, a colleague of Pupovac listed why he resented his colleagues for reporting for injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So he spent 40% of his time talking about a subject that wasn't the subject of debate, and then he demeaned his colleagues when he said all these injuries to the Rules of Procedure were trivial. If he assumes that these injuries to the Rules of Procedure are trivial, then he suggests that the Rules of Procedure himself are trivial, because we all reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and properly responded to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20899	But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and last time I didn't give you a warning. I'll give you a warning now. Let's get it over with with with the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Honorable representative on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20900	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I see you need a Rules of Procedure. This is my copy. Read it, you could use it Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, too.]] Talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure when someone abuses their authority by the votes of all of us representatives of the Croatian Parliament to lead this session is actually very little different from what I will talk about when I insist that such and similar laws are passed by a two-thirds majority, and that is because in a democratic regime we respect a form that ensures that someone's personal violence does not run into the violence of the state towards the individual. We, as Social Democrats with an emphasis on what Democrats on behalf of our party, cannot support it, this kind of violence that is being exaggerated from holding a session to what the state unfortunately proposes to its citizens is something we are fighting and, unfortunately, then creates resistance to measures that are very useful and necessary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Reiner today spoke first on behalf of the representatives' clubs and again, according to the Prime Minister, the second minister and HDZ officials, said the citizens were guilty of failing to win the measures. Just one line. On 12 October, a limit was introduced to 50 persons for a social gathering. Isn't that right, Minister? 21. The 11th limit to 25 has entered into force. So is it the citizens' fault that they respected the measure that 49 can be gathered, and the measure did not produce the effect, or those who did not take account of the epidemiological reasons, but of the internal political HDZ-based reasons before they brought and sharpened the measure? Is that what citizens are guilty of? No, they're not. Citizens respected measures that many in this home said were not sufficient. But not only are they not enough, that at least that's the only problem. These measures do not have any criteria on the basis of which they are adopted. They're arbitrary. From October 12th to November 21st, so you did not consider it necessary to sharpen the measures and us who warned you personally during the current morning were making fun of you. And then when it came to the dead, you said it was the virus. And then after 21st after 7 days of new stricter measures. Why? Because the ones that were in effect during October didn't have any effect. And what's the result? According to the European Centre for Disease Prevention, Croatia is now 2nd in the European Union at a 14-day average of 100,000 people. There is only one Member State that has a worse epidemiological situation than us. According to data published today that I've checked over a thousand to 100,000 residents. One of the 100 citizens of this country has been infected over the past 14 days. It's probably even bigger because by testing as we know it, we can't cover everything and yes, this is a dangerous disease, and yes, it needs to be fought seriously and responsibly and that citizens need to be convinced that the measures that are being taken for their own good, and not that these measures limit their freedom and whatever else, but by the behavior that you have, colleagues and colleagues, you won't succeed. Democracy and content are also a form because we keep the content from the threat of those who would abuse it. As was an attempt, you will remember, in the spring, that the phones of citizens and citizens of this country are being tracked. You didn't make it. You're trying something else today. And some like my predecessor, Mr. Pupovac, will pull a comparison between this measure and what happened in the early '90s, and I will really agree with him. It was far worse, incomparably worse, it was a violation of the law, morals and everything a democratic and modern state should rest on. But this is a step in that direction. And just to prevent a step in that direction, we're asking you simply to accept one simple fact, and the fact is the next. Croatia is in a state of emergency. The state of emergency is defined by the fact that unlike last year at this time we cannot walk our streets without wearing a mask if we want to reduce the risk of getting infected. The state of emergency is also visible from the fact that we can't go to catering facilities, that we can't invite more friends to come visit us, but let's move on, that we can't cross the state border without ending up in quarantine, that people can't come to Croatia without applying the test that they're not sick or ending up in quarantine. The state of emergency is also evident in the fact that the Prime Minister leads the session out of his loft because he must not come to the government building to protect his colleagues and colleagues. The state of emergency caused by the virus, a disease that none of us have caused, and really in that part of it is true, this has not caused either HDZ, or SDP, or anyone else but the virus, but in this virus we have to respond in an adequate way and we need to start to realize that this is a natural disaster. And yes, “at a time of great natural disasters of certain freedoms and rights guaranteed by the constitution can be limited, ” says the article. 17. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but then this also states "this is what the HS decides by a two-thirds majority of all MPs". Why? In order not to go too far in this freedom or to restrict freedom, it will be decided by dialogue between all stakeholders in a society who will then have to advocate the application of such measures and explain why freedom must be limited. It's not this provision in the constitution for no reason. The people who signed her into the Republic of Croatia knew very well why they were doing it, and we now invite you to use her. And if you say the decision in the assembly should take too long, then I will only remind you once again, on October 12th, a 50-person limit at social gatherings, reduced to 25 only on November 21st, and the decisions were made by the headquarters and the government for 40 days. When the Assembly decided on the Civil Protection System Act, it took him less than 24 hours. We can be operational when needed, we can. But what's the problem? The problem is that we would have to talk then, we would have to try to reach agreement, and that is unfortunately for you HDZ gentlemen, not even in this time of crisis. We of the SDP Representatives Club will not be able to support this law, form is the reason, of course the problem is content. We believe that this is how the measures are too strict. A fellow Pupovac called for a legal expert who said the purpose of punishment should be prevention. I can absolutely agree with that, but here it's not just prevention but at the amount of punishment this is also filling the state budget. And when we talk about the penalties that are scheduled for a gathering in physical or physical rooms owned by natural persons, so houses, so homes, then we go to the amount of 5,000 to 10,000 kuna. Don't be mad, but it's too much. And the methodology advocated by some such as the distinguished minister that neighbours report theirs at the level of Ilija Cvorovic, and I don't want to waste a word about it. I'm sorry you said that, you shouldn't have said that, you made a big mistake when you invited neighbors to report neighbors because that's not the way this country would work. We must take responsibility to convince the citizens, convince, and not force. The coercion must only come at the end when all the methods of persuasion have shown that they are failing, and we haven't even tried. I'm going to repeat once again just to sit down, the 12.10. limit to 50 people and from your majority, Mr. Cacic assured you that it wasn't enough, it took you 40 days to correct it, and then the citizens are guilty, they're not. It's all your fault, gentlemen of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20901	Thank you very much. Thank you and for giving me the Rules of Procedure HS, and I always like to return the gift, I would hand you the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so that you may see that in art. 16 says about health, but in art. The 17th says of war, endangering territorial integrity, etc. Thank you very much. Here he is, the next Club of Representatives is that HSS and HSU, so he will speak to the esteemed representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20902	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today we've heard a little bit of everything. The theme is very serious. Everyone has an opinion. I appreciate the opinions of everyone, even those who got their opinions written, so they had to read them here or in some other bench. But I also have an opinion on this subject. Unfortunately, the measures are too late and now the government is panicking, because the results show that we are too late for anything or we have done a lot of wrong. And normally, from Europe, we have the exact results of where we are, that we are among those who are at the top of the number of people infected by millions. Some would say, at least we're on top of something. One thing that touched me so little in the eye at the time of the budget, which was the paragraph of punishment, administrative measures and other revenues by 21 years compared to the 20th year, increased by 70 million kuna. Is that what it is, we can ask ourselves. I hope not. I hope not. He says, "A fine of 500 kuna will punish a natural person for a violation if he does not adhere to the obligation to wear a mask properly or a medical mask." Well, dear gentlemen, you must know that a large number of citizens wear one mask for weeks. And even you can ask yourself if you have masks on your face that we say have expired. And probably some of them do? You yourself deny that a mask does not have any effect on whether or not you are going to become infected. Is this the kind of fear of people with a penalty that we're going to achieve? I doubt it because people will wear a mask, but the question of how much that mask is due to its term of use will also protect it. Will the mask be able to wear properly and those who do not have to buy a mask, unfortunately looking for food in containers, and the masks found there will certainly not protect them? They're the only ones I can get infected with. Here he tries to turn a man on a man, a neighbor to a neighbor, a friend to a friend. Well, let's stick to that old saying, and fight it out. Unfortunately, from what we've heard today, it's clear that neither the headquarters nor the government is managing the pandemic, it's not leading the crisis in the right direction. But how much of this can be read is trying to manage fear. Because you know every man is afraid to die, even one who says he's not afraid, yet he's afraid. And here for a long time, fear has been the thing that most people deal with and try to scare people. Citizens have lost confidence in both headquarters and government as far as the pandemic is concerned. It was kicks. It's normal who works and makes mistakes. But there were some kicks that shouldn't have happened. Here, I quote the minister, today he said, "Unnecessary contacts suit the spread of the virus." Was the memory column not unnecessary contact? The honor of the fighters and those who died and died in Vukovar could be given in another way, not that after the Colonies of those tested 2/3 could be positive. Obviously, it was unnecessary contact, but it serves political purposes. Why did we have cases of death where people were claimed to have passed away from Covid-19, and then relatives disproved and claimed otherwise? And it has broken people's trust with a common regiment who's watching and listening to it today is like this, tomorrow is like this. Another quote from the minister, he says, "We have balanced." Yes, it is ahead of the elections, and before the party elections, and before the Memory Colony today you balance. Unfortunately, too many things are done in mind. And as far as this law is concerned, it would be very good for him to bring in the two-thirds majority that we all agree and try to gain that trust from citizens who have been brought down to the headquarters and towards the government, but also towards the Croatian Parliament and all of us sitting here. You see that by the grade we get on every research. The vaccine is something that should give hope that is now placed in the media. But you know, ordinary people, but maybe a minister who hangs out with his friends or doesn't even have time to hang out with anyone, certainly doesn't hang out with the common regiment to listen to what the regiment says, and the Colonel says Europe doesn't work even for all members, so we suspect that the vaccine will do the same quality for all members. And there's a skepticism that people spread between themselves and that certainly doesn't help solve the problem. ... I didn't hear. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there is also a question of the minister, what about other patients who are waiting for a search limitless, treatment? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Some of them died, they didn't wait. Unfortunately, there are no more respiratory disorders in Croatia today than Covid-19. We created this kind of psychosis when someone on a tram or somewhere coughs the whole tram turns to that person. There are other respiratory diseases that are far worse than this. This has shown us experience, and all these results that we agreed on, they're not exactly what you're showing them, and that's exactly what brought this return to the relatives of those who died. I agree there's a threat. I agree it should work. Unfortunately, our actions have gone the wrong way and the result is who it is. Let's go once and at least in this case overcome party policies and try to be people and sit together to try to find the best solution. So are HDZ alone the most professional people who sit in that headquarters and manage the crisis? So pay some respects to some others, and include some others. We listen all the time on the portals, on the networks, copying Đikiæ with Beros, with no one else. Well, I don't think that man is sitting in Frankfurt because he's stupid or he has no idea what he's talking about. Let's listen to him. How would you say the Dalmatians' cargo... He's smarter than a Dalmatian. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20903	Thank you. Now, since we've been working for more than three hours, we're gonna take a break, so I'll see you in 19 and 20 minutes. I'm asking for a moment to clear the hall. It's 19.05 p.m. [[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING IN 19.19 HOURS]] Now it will be the turn of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, and time will be shared by the respected representative Tomasevic and the respected representative Bencic. First of all, I understand the esteemed representative Tomašević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20904	I think I'd start with the fact that we said that the break is up to 19 and 20, but I don't see any proposing representatives here, so I think that would be correct if the proposing representative was at least one here. ... All right, all right, all right, I'll wait, no problem, just, yeah. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, we didn't propose this law, and I agree that this is a mortally serious topic, literally, which is why I think it deserves this one to be treated correctly with this subject all of us. ... All right, all eyes. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can wait, I'd say, this is our place of work, our hours are gone, so for as long as the debate takes, so long as it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20905	Here, the promoters are here. Here you go, dear representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20906	Thank you. As for the views of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, we have actually had a state of emergency, even though the ruling majority do not want to recognise it, neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the Member. 17. In fact, it should be activated or should be treated as an art. 17. A constitution which clearly states that in cases of such natural ames a word of disaster, and this is not caused by man, nor is a war threat, meaning it could come to my attention under natural disasters or such, that the restriction of freedom and rights guaranteed by the constitution can only be two-thirds of the majority in HS voted, meaning any restriction by the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. And when we talk about the right to the non-vulnerability of home or freedom of public gathering, these are definitely by the constitution guaranteed rights and freedoms, it can only be two-thirds of the majority voted in HS. This is not a detail, we live in a democratic society and even in crises like this, and this is a serious health crisis, we have to stick to some procedures and democratic standards. They can't just be suspended. Also, I agree with my colleague, Pupovac, who said that it would have been good if we had discussed this before, in that sense I agree because we as a club in the parliamentary procedure almost two months ago have just delivered the conclusion that we are also discussing measures like this and all measures towards the thresholds that have clearly been defined when we get to the number of hospitalized A measures X, when we get to the number of hospitalized and number of respirators B go to measures Y etc. etc. He says on that suggestion that it's easy to be a general after the battle. But no, we were the generals of the battle because we spoke almost two months ago and warned on the basis of the predictions of the World Health Organization even in mid-October what would happen to the number of deaths by the end of November. They weren't, we weren't there, we didn't have a special model for it, they were World Health Organization models and before Djikic, so scientist Djikic warned about what would happen to the death toll by the end of November, which unfortunately came true before the end of November of 1500 dead. So we weren't generals after the battle, we were warning before the battle about it, but we weren't listening, and that conclusion that wasn't just about predicting measures that would be objective, which would then be much easier for citizens to accept because they would see exactly what a number of hospitalized ones mean, what measures they can, can predict, what kind of measures are waiting for them, and they wouldn't feel that decisions are being made from today to tomorrow, given the particular party interests of HDZ, which you now believe have a feeling because you've given them a lot of reasons, a lot of reasons. And it says, you told Minister Berosch that you balanced between the economy and the epidemiological measures. However, what we have proposed has nothing to do with the economy of some of these proposals. For example, why did we give up in mid-October from, uh, tracking contacts? Well, of course 103 epidemiologists across the country can't track and call all contact infected, so that's clear as day. But couldn't a system be established to exploit both members of civil protection and volunteers to do so with the supervision of epidemiologists, not to do so by the epidemiologists themselves? Well, that's impossible, but that's not why we should have left the tracking system that came from before, if I wasn't mistaken, 60% of the newly infected were just out of contact, and that's when we mastered it instead of leaving, we wouldn't have a situation like this right now. We wouldn't have a situation like this right now. I'm on it, I'm on it. And before you tell me so I can't do any of the civilian protection volunteers that kind of work, so can I just work the infected? Now, then the infected were expected to contact their own contacts, they were educated for it better than volunteers for civil protection. The measures we have proposed such as working from home in the public sector to have an impact on the economy would have a minimal impact on the economy. It could've been done by then when you could see where it was going. So we've proposed gradual measures to introduce ourselves so we don't go from one extreme to another, and now we're doing it. As far as these examples are concerned, it's already been said. So there was a ban on public gatherings of up to 50 people, more than 50 people, but for the memory column suddenly the exception can be 500 people, 10 times more, and then in reality 10,000 people get together, 200 times more. And that is not the only example where the government did not show by its example how this should be done. There were many more examples where the government's sessions were, it wasn't held at the government's two-foot-distance sessions, they were under masks, but it wasn't at the beginning of a two-metre gap when it was recommended for everyone else in closed spaces. There were other examples like that. So what's true for the ox is not true for the gods and of course people don't take any action, they've lost confidence in headquarters. You could say a lot of other examples now, but I want to end up with only one example, which is that in early October, usually in the health system, it starts for health care staff to be vaccinated against influenza. We are now in December still health professionals, all healthcare professionals not only those who are in Covid departments have not been given the opportunity to vaccinate against the flu. I'm responsible for that. Why am I responsible for that? Because I had to since you let go, since there was a flu vaccine in the free sale, so even companies bought it big for their employees, and the health system didn't allow all health care professionals to vaccinate against the flu. So now I have a situation, here's from personal experience, that my parents who bought the vaccine for me, I finally gave that vaccine to a health care professional who unfortunately can't get the vaccine. And when it starts to work, it'll take three weeks, which means that, even if you get the vaccines by Christmas, it'll take it to start working, and we know very well what it means to have a combination of flu and Covida-19, what that combination means. So in my opinion, this is just another example of the shame of the Croatian health system, the Croatian government and the Croatian state as a whole, if in this crisis we have not been able to enable all health care professionals to vaccinate against the flu in time, and some still do not have that option, and they are more exposed than all of us. And that's why I didn't eventually vaccinate against the flu because my vaccine went to one of the healthcare professionals who needed it much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20907	Thank you. The honourable representative Bencic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20908	Thank you. You personally told me, therefore, that you did not know and that it could not have been known a month and a half ago what the situation would be and that no provision could be made for what measures to be implemented. So, I can't accept at all that someone said that they couldn't know when there were data, calculations and predictions from both the World Health Organization and the EU and other EU member states, and ultimately from our scientists, here's one that you thought was excess in your scientific council. Djikica, who was everything, but all these very predictions proved to be true by the end of November. We, when we proposed our measures in October, were based on that measure, checking them on that data, looking at what was the conservative assessment, which was the second one. Couldn't you have done it? Could we not have said in mid-October that we are going to organize a contact tracking service in a sustainable way, not to switch from epidemiologist to doctors of general practice who do not have a job, as if we have extras because they usually pick on the ear at work and have no other job than to call people? We couldn't arrange it, and today you're saying that these are things that you could have known about a month and a half ago. What's our problem is, it's not measures, it's not even sanctions, it's the problem when you skip the status of responsibility. If the government hasn't done its part of the responsibility, you can't and we won't allow you to transfer that responsibility exclusively to the citizens. Do your part of the job, set up a contact tracking service, do the question of a larger number of tests when you do it [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20909	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers of State, I must say that we are already here for 5 hours, 4 hours, a little more, and I cannot understand that certain opposition deputies 9 months after Croatia, the Croatian Government, the Civil Protection Staff, and this assembly also adopts laws and implements measures to protect citizens from the Covida-19 epidemic and yet does not realize that what we are doing is in accordance with the Constitution, that this is in accordance with Article 16. The Constitution. To be followed by Article 16 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of freedom and the rights of citizens can, by law, be limited by someone's will, but by law when it comes to the threat of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that these laws restricting the rights and freedoms of our citizens are passed by the supra-almost of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. at 76. If you want the Penal Code, a couple of excellences limit citizens' rights. The prison of investigation is one of the essential reductions in the rights of citizens, the restriction of these rights and freedoms, and this law is passed by a half-dominated majority. You're talking about something else that the Croatian Parliament has not declared. That the Croatian Parliament has declared the circumstances set out in Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, if it were, and it wasn't, then you'd be right. Then this one, and these measures, should be taken by a two-thirds majority. And you don't get it. The Constitutional Court has said that the legislator is the authority to determine whether the fight against the epidemic will lead to laws based on Article 16. The Constitution which stipulates that rights and freedoms can be restricted when it comes to health threats or transferred to another model of work to Article 17. The Constitution and bring the same measures to the two-thirds majority. You're right about the other one. You can question whether these measures are proportionate, they're right and they tried and the Constitutional Court brought it down. You have the right today, tomorrow, the day after the law is passed to the Constitutional Court to apply for an assessment of the constitutionality of these amendments and to say whether they were proportionate in the nature of the threat, but that the law has passed them, but the assembly has passed them in a privileged, in its work based on the Constitution there is no further dilemma there and there is no need to talk about it. Another thing I want to tell you. You shall advocate Article 17. The Constitution for nine months. In the meantime, you asked for ministers' resignations, you asked for interpretations, you wrote correspondences, you asked for, you asked for the establishment of investigative committees, and what was full of mouths, the decisions in Article 17 you didn't write, you didn't write. Why didn't you bother writing? You write your interpretations every day of the interpretation a new, every week impelation one act or another. Write down the decision in Article 17, take care and write it down and we'll answer that. You didn't write except that it only serves you in one debate to try to offend what's done here. No Member State of the EU respected gentlemen, none, none of the most successful, none less successful, did the powers of parliament or the fight against corruption bring on their parliaments, but rather set up governments. Governments and their bodies, and France read little I have an EU-price report, and France has put all this down to the Minister of Health, and Prime Minister French can decree what we are saying, by decree forbidding leaving the apartment, the French prime minister. And you're here to give us a statement in something that we're bringing to the assembly and saying that we've offended the assembly. In its 9th meeting, that is, while Croatia was fighting an epidemic, it discussed 19 acts, 19 laws, 19 laws that prescribed measures to protect the health of citizens and measures to protect the health of the economy, and we have already discussed 8 times the measures we are fighting against, against this epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20911	Thank you very much, we still have one whole series of replicas, my colleague Bulj is a little late this one, but we have a lot of others who want to rephrase you, so let's take it in a row. The first one is the respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20912	Thank you. It is clear to me that you would be pleased to have a semi-presidential system in which parliament would not control the way in which it is foreseen by our Constitution or by the Government or by the President of the Republic because you probably thought of it when you spoke, but you have this system where unfortunately we have to control you, and you are obstructing it in every way possible. In fact, Article 17 provides for a state of emergency which is a fact, the question is whether we are in a state of emergency, colleagues have already listed it so there is no need for me to list the features of the state of emergency in which we live, ask any citizens on the road if they think we are in a state of emergency. And that's why we think it takes a two-thirds majority to make these decisions, but not only because of that, but also because of the creation of social cohesion and trust because when we stand behind a two-thirds decision, we are all here, and then the citizens will accept it more easily because they will see that there is a political and social consensus for that, but you don't care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20913	The answer of the esteemed MP Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bencic, you don't have to threaten with your finger, I understand you without it. Therefore, read finally Article 16 and Article 17, Article 16. The constitution mentions health protection, saying. In Article 17, there is no mention of health, it is said, to read here, to talk about, about the state of direct war threat, major natural disasters, does not mention health unlike Article 16 which, unfortunately, your health. But you're completely contradictory, you're talking about a state of emergency, you're advocating then I don't know the curfew, that the state's bodies aren't working, that the judicial authority isn't working. You are controversial in what you say is a state of emergency in Croatia, and we would party you, invite you to a party. You're calling the government to limit the partying in apartments because it's a violation of human rights. That's what you're talking about and thinking. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20915	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Bencic, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20916	Yes, I've done an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because Mr. Bacic except for misinterpreting and insulting lists things that absolutely none of us have said. And neither did we call for partying, but we said that we were for measures that should have been introduced sooner or in any way we were contradictory in that sense because we're looking for the whole time the same thing. We are looking for parliamentary control of the restrictions on the rights and freedom of citizens, we are asking for the situation to be constitutional and what we are looking for is these measures to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20917	So, fellow Members Bencic, this is a typical example of abuse of the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure, you are replicating your colleagues to Bacic. I am the basis of Article 240(1) of I give you the reminder by taking away the words for now, this moment, is it? That's your second warning. Here you are, Your Honor, the Honorable Representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20918	Thank you. My colleague Bačić, I can even agree with you in principle. We are reviewing the proportionality of one of these measures whether it can be subdued under Article 16 or if restrictions on human rights are only in this case so much that Article 17 should be applied, so we understand each other very well. You want a flyer when Article 17 is applied to get as much as possible so you have to use it as quickly as possible, and you hope that you will never apply it, and we would like to warn that if we agree that this flyer is constantly rising so that a situation can occur that a significant restriction of human rights under a health protection company will become something about normal as a frog. So when you put it in cold water so you go slowly cook it up she'll cook, if you immediately throw it in hot water she'll go out, right, that's what we do and there's no other in this country who should do it except the parliamentary opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20919	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20920	I thank my colleague Bauk, you understand better than Mrs. Bencic, she understands nothing, you understand. Namely, she says, she says, she says that, that we don't want control, control, so who's passing this law, is this law passed by some representative council of some small municipalities or city. This law restricting human rights in accordance with Article 16 makes a parliament just as you think and you are wrong to bring it to the two-thirds majority because you do not doubt that it should be done but you doubt whether it should be two-thirds or qualified, if we claim and this is what the Constitutional Court has confirmed that it can be qualified by a majority. And that's where my colleague Bauk is now mistaken because you know that all the restrictions of human rights in Croatia have been brought to the half of all representatives. It is known which laws are passed in Croatia, the Constitutional Court Act The Law on the Rights of National Minorities, etc., I will continue. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20921	Thank you. Next, the next replica is the respected representatives of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20922	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you to explain one thing to me when you're talking about the proportionality of measures. In March when we had multiple fewer numbers proportional to the measure at the time of the pandemic's complete lockdown closure of the economy, closing schools. Now with a much worse situation in the pandemic, a proportionate measure is only important to wear masks. Just tell me when you're wrong then or now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20923	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20924	Mrs. Glamuzina, the measures provided for by law were then used by the Civil Protection Staff under government supervision. Now this same headquarters estimates that these measures that we then prescribed by the Law on the Protection of the public are not enough and we are now introducing 3 new measures. Read this law, we introduce three new measures. So in addition to those measures that the law provides, not which the headquarters has adopted, but which the law has now provided for, we are now introducing three more measures. Mandatory masking, banning public gathering and gathering in private places. These are the 3 measures we are now bringing and bringing again in accordance with the Constitution. So, by this law, we're not the measures that were taken when the lockdown was annulled, and they're no longer in force. They remain, they are within the law and the Civil Protection Centre are part of these measures, not all, part of the measures implemented, part of the measures. For example, crossing the border, for example banning a certain number of gatherings, etc., etc., work of objects that had been before and is now in effect again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20925	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20926	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The constitution because it specifically mentions health, as if in Article 17 where we have natural disasters and war conditions it will not have consequences for human health. Well, it does not exclude Article 17, Article 16, that is, so I still believe that such measures that restrict freedom and rights in this way are de facto extraordinary conditions and that they should be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. And when you say that all other European countries, that the government has not transferred their powers anywhere to parliament in battle, you didn't even say against the crown, you said against corruption because it's clearly on your mind, it's that Freudian lapus. Just like you did tomorrow, when you should have an investigative committee removed him from the agenda, because we, you ask why we didn't write the decision, we wrote the conclusion and you buried him in the agenda and you don't put him on a plenary debate. Conclusion on measures to combat the crown crisis. Just like an investigative commission hocus experiment one day is on the agenda, and the other day is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20927	Dear Representative Bačić, answer. Thank you very much, thank you very much, very much, for the response of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Tomasevic, you have the right to this opinion, but you do not understand. The country's leadership has this ruling majority. You have the right to any democratic means allowed, including to verify whether what we are doing is in accordance with the Constitution, you have the right to do so. And you have the right to disagree. But you can't tell us that we don't work in accordance with the Constitution. That's the difference between you and me. Either you don't understand or you don't want to understand. You think that we should declare a state of emergency, and we think that in these circumstances we can cope with the model we are now running, which is that without declaring the state of emergency, we prescribe measures between them and restricting human rights under the law that no one else brings to this assembly. It's just that the difference between us and you is that we think we can do it faster, more effectively bring it to the government and the headquarters to implement these measures, and you think that we need every measure Every step we take here through... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20929	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20930	Thank you very much. Mr Bacic, in March, you said, the time has come for the parliament to decide on a two-thirds majority in order to allow state bodies to act in accordance with that decision and suspend certain human rights which will be prescribed by Parliament's decision as well as constitutional rights which under no circumstances can be suspended. At that moment, you announced that you in HDZ were considering the activation of an article. 17. when you are aware of the fact that you are hitting on human and civil and constitutional rights by wanting to monitor their mobile movements, you must go this way. During the night, you gave it up, from the activation of the article. 17. But fortunately, you gave up following our citizens. Now you tell me nicely, what is the difference between your opinion in the third month and today, and what is the difference between being followed by citizens on their cell phones and getting into their private spaces?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20931	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20932	Dear Mrs. Voter. That's right, we've been thinking about it and that's what I said in the debate, we're thinking about the activation of art. 17th and when we saw where it could get us out of it... We gave up... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20933	We're not going to the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20934	I'm going to answer to this first part of you first, so first of all, I'm going to answer to this first part of the question that we've been thinking about, and it's clear that by weighing what's good, effective, effective, effective, we're going to decide on this model because if you think that HS is two-thirds of the way that we should decide on any extent that the government decides and the headquarters then I don't know where that would lead us. That's what I said last night and a few times here. At this point in the long island is the focus of the pandemic covida, whether the Parliament will decide here with a two-thirds majority whether we'll just quarantine Bozava or maybe Sali or maybe also Brbinj or maybe Zaglav, it's us... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20935	Comrade Voter, finally stop throwing from the bench, so please be polite at least. The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20936	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. Here we are in a pandemic that when it appeared we had no idea, now we also know a lot, we know more than it was at the beginning but we don't know enough today. And here we are now bringing amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and I would like to thank both the headquarters and Minister Beros for the effort and the search for the best solutions. And now that the art is used. The 16th crystal clear question immediately arises that freedoms are being threatened, or that the state budget is being filled with the so-called penalties prescribed. I don't think that's true, and that I'm simply going to be a responsible citizen, if I'm going to protect the weak and the powerless that I'm never going to get into a situation where I'm being punished. How do you comment... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20937	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20938	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shimičević. While we are here discussing something that we have already debated in countless times in HS, outside of this House there is a terrible disease going on and I have to add recognition to those who are at this point on the front line of the front line, it's doctors, it's nurses, it's health staff. And instead of with our messages and our pawnage that we can make, which is that as Parliamentarians we pass those laws that will make their job easier, we question here something that is far behind us. And I must say in this debate I do not see any great purpose of this debate except that the dissatisfied representatives and someone else what HS brings to the foundations of the Constitution question in the Constitutional Court whether these measures that we bring are proportionate and to this end is the purpose of this debate. Well, at the end of time, I'm not gonna say it till the end, so maybe in another line, I'll say what else I meant to say for the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20939	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, the world and Croatia are in crisis and any measure taken implies that something will have to be sacrificed. The headquarters and government, unlike critics, still have to take care of the general interest of the public and society, not just individual groups, because if they asked healthcare professionals they would certainly say close everything if they asked the owners of fitness centers, craftsmen, the caterers they would say leave us open, so it is very important to manage the processes in a measured and rational way to make as little sacrifice and damage as possible. That's why I'd like to ask you because there's a lot of debate here today about whether human rights of citizens will be compromised by this law? Does the police get any new powers by this law that she has not already had, for example, so far when it comes to their conduct in breaching public order and peace?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20941	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20942	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Petyr. That this law is more than clearly restricting certain rights of citizens, we believe that these measures are proportionate to the threat that is taking place at this time by spreading the disease, but this same law leaves the police with the same powers that the police have already had, and that is that when there is a reasonable suspicion that someone is breaking the law in their own apartment to come to the door, to determine whether there is indeed breaking the law or not in matters of disturbing public order and domestic violence and when it comes to the suspicion of committing a crime in a particular home. So, home is inviolable, it's a constitutional category, but the law can and can do it again to the half-breeding majority of all MPs to pass laws such as the Penal Code, a violation of the law by which these rights... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20943	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20944	Thank you. Dear colleague Bacic. What worries us all is that you first introduced this kind of mild lockdown, and then you went to negotiate with entrepreneurs, with craftsmen. We're worried about all these lyrics in taking measures, we're worried that you don't have any productive models, so that's what my colleagues have warned me before.... /.0 we do not know what we want to achieve and what our goal is about the number of people infected who are in hospitals to mitigate or perhaps what situation should be in the field in order to take even more stringent measures. You didn't give us the answers, we're aware of the seriousness of the situation, we're here today very seriously, but you're not serious. And what is worryingly respected ministers is what I want to tell you and I want to tell you that you said and invited people to report their neighbors. You didn't need it, and it's not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20945	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Both the Minister of Health and the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and members of the headquarters have repeatedly said that measures have been graduated and adopted in response to the situation that is both predictable or happening. I'll just tell you one thing, at this point in the Republic of Slovenia to us neighbouring country, for a month, a month is in effect the sharpest measures lockdown roughly similar to that if not stronger than the one we had at the 3rd month. And you know what the score is? Today, the Republic of Slovenia records a record in the number of infected and dead. A month after he was declared a lockdown in that state. Therefore, what the minister said will not help the measures themselves, nor will the measures alone be able to stop the epidemic if we do not raise awareness of each and every one of us, when each and every one of us will not adhere to the measures and take care of... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] measures. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20947	The next replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20948	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, I'm kind of feeling this debate by our opposition we're not going to take action. When we say that we have measures related to the obligation to wear a mask and punishments related to non-bearing, then they tell us that people need to win to accept masks while on the other hand they tell us that we have had too long recommendations and too mild measures and that we are too late in time. When they tell us that we need to have measures of reputation for other countries, and they also have masks and penalties for masks, then when it comes to other countries, it's a good measure and respect for decisions, and when we do that, it's not good. All these European countries have also introduced similar measures, even more stringent ones, and we know that they are just the ones who have the advantage. in respect of human rights. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20949	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Murganic, it is my impression, and perhaps I am wrong, I will not be sure that the opposition holds if these measures that the minister has now proposed were proposed under Article 17 and adopted by the two-thirds majority in order to be okay then, in order to be appropriate. And when it is adopted by the Constitution and Article 16 of the supra-'s majority, then it is not worth it, then we will question in the Constitutional Court whether they are good. That's the difference between us and them. What we have decided on this model for reasons of efficiency, speed, always execution, always executive power since the world and centuries are said to be at risk of taking any responsibility for the speed of decision, because of the principle of effectiveness but in doing so, the executive power must take care of proportionate measures to take these measures does not cause major damage to the part relating to restrictions on the rights of citizens or any other country, however. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20951	The next replica is a respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20952	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague Bačić is saddening me that all the time by the opposition here wants to impose a thesis on the counter-constitution of these proposed measures in fact the whole legal framework we have in terms of the headquarters, so today we have heard that everything we bring is practically a matter of retroactive law that has really no standoff. I would only like to read one sentence from the Constitutional Court's solution for the sake of and for the sake of the public who is watching us: Contrary to the allegations of the motionors who have asked for an assessment of constitutionality, the Constitution does not require the Croatian Parliament that the laws or decisions and measures restricting fundamental human rights and freedoms be taken solely on the basis of Article 17. The Constitution. This is what we claim, we have chosen precisely because of the efficiency of Article 16 which enables us and I just ask how effective we would be to say all decisions such as, how many people can be at weddings we bring here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20953	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Iron Man, you're absolutely right. Here I told the opposition, and now I tell them that instead of daily, at the daily level, they predicate the rulings to act counter-constitutionally in writing the document, which will propose the activation of Article 17 and let them write down what measures they would bring here in the Croatian Parliament two-thirds majority to effectively fight the Covida-19 pandemic. Here I am, and now I call upon you to write, what are the measures, to what level they would go, would they go to the level, for example. Whether two grandmothers on the stand will be three or four metres away, and then we will decide for two-thirds of the majority, or prescribe only measures to prohibit the gathering, so that they measure the principle level. I invite them here to write it down and go in detail with that decision that will be enforceable to the police and to the police. for the State Inspectorate and for all other and healthcare professionals and for all other officials. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20955	Thank you very much. We're going to the next individual debate, and it's going to be Angel Strike's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20956	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues in every crisis situation, and this epidemic of the Crown of the Virus is the biggest of the Homeland War, it is important to send clear unequivocal and encouraging messages. It's no good to create panic, spread disinformation, call and insult because it's the way to escalating the epidemic, and that's exactly what happened in Varazdin County. So when we talk about the Varazdin County from the media we learn, I quote "Reportation from the Varazdin Hospital, here is a state of war" or "Capacities of the Varazdin Hospital are full, for the first time patients are placed in tents" and a series of similar titles and inscriptions. But what made them sick, especially the elderly, who worked their whole lives, created, built, made out of their salaries for taxes, taxes, contributions among other things, and for health insurance, placed in tents if half the hospital was empty? Namely, according to my knowledge at the General Hospital Varazdin, which is located in three locations, in Varazdin, Novi Marof and Klenovnik there were a total of 1039 patients' beds of which 278, for covid patients, there were 448 patients of which 207 of covid were treated that day. From the above, a total of 591 beds were empty, of which 71 covid beds. So the question arises, why were our built-in citizens sent to tents if more than half of the hospital facilities were available? Then, Varazdin General Hospital is a pavilion type hospital. It consists of a dozen separate buildings. Covid hospital was first placed on one floor of surgery, when the epidemic affected the surgery was added to one floor on the inside, when everything exploded and the premises in Klenovnik and Novi Marof were added there. On the contrary, in Zagreb, primarily because of its size, an entire hospital has been singled out and declared a covid hospital, the others have not touched that the infection does not spread, primarily to healthcare professionals and others. Therefore, the question arises, why has such a model not been applied in Varazdin County? Why didn't one building or one of the locations just be used for covid patients? Then calling and insulting is certainly not going to help anyone, especially in this situation. Calling two young people a failed child of successful parents is not appropriate for anyone, and especially not for one mayor. These young citizens have decided to stay in Croatia, work here, create, hire, and it is normal to fear that the epidemic will affect them and their employees. They have not damaged, unhappy or endangered anyone, and deserve not to be called, let alone be offended. Out of all the above, a series of outstanding issues arises, how is it possible that national headquarters measures do not produce results only in the Varazdin County? If we knew in the spring that a new even stronger wave was waiting for us at the end of the year, how did the county headquarters prepare for it? Since it is both a matter of importance and national security, has SOA informed the authorities that the patients are being sent to the tent and that half of the hospital's facilities are available? Was there any concern about the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and the next tourist season? What will the consequences of the coronary virus epidemic cause the economy, the labour market, or society as a whole? etc., etc. Finally, from the first day on, I have been holding on and calling on everyone to adhere to the prescribed measures, only together to follow all the measures, respecting themselves, by helping the needy, we can overcome this disaster and that is why I will support the adoption of these legal amendments. And finally, one big thank you to all the employees in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20957	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Uncle. It seems to me that in Varazdin County if I can comment on it from Zagreb as if the campaign for local elections has already begun. Unfortunately, this one not dialogue on the route of the City of Varazdin-Varaždin County is not a good message. In general, I think that the topic of health is in the vast majority of issues that are superseded and, as you mentioned at the outset, that sense of unity as much as it sometimes seems to us politicians that we saw it in just one other form when it was the World Cup. And I think what you said at the very end, that no matter what political option you belonged to, we must stand up for community and unity because it will contribute to better outcomes for covid patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20959	The answer of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20960	My colleague, you're absolutely right and I agree with you. This epidemic is certainly not good to be used for any political purposes, and this is exactly what happens in Varazdin. Spreading insults, callings, performing tragics, giving statements of war, and it lasts a week and today saying that we have 90 more hospital beds in the Varazdin hospital and that no one has been lying in the tent is extremely unserious, extremely unserious that for a week journalists write about the state of war and that today we have 90 more beds, and more people are sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20961	The next replica is the esteemed representative Antolic Vupra. Mrs. Vupora, you had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20962	Thank you very much for your word, I saw that you looked across the hall, so that's not why I got up. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The esteemed parliamentary representative from my Varazdin County, so you said in your presentation and you listed yourself as, like, the Varazdin County as an example where the hospital presented a terrible burden and still carries it and is still ahead of it. This burden is handled very well, and I agree with you that some statements are certainly exaggerated. But when they looked at each other and looked at each other, they would now ask if you think all of this could have been avoided that kind of condition that we have today in the Varazdin hospital that is among the most difficult in Europe?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20963	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20964	Dear MPs to spread disinformation, to call, to insult, to claim that it is literally in Varazdin, Director Kudelic said the state of war, Mayor Cacic asked for the introduction of a curfew and if all this dramaturgy will make it better, and I am the first to support their drama. However, it certainly will not help the sick, especially not to sow fear and panic. A week of Varazdin is written only in a negative context. These doctors, technicians, nurses who do their best, the last atom of strength, did not deserve such inscriptions. They certainly didn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20965	The next replica is the respected representative of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20966	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here comes my colleague Strick from Varazdin County, and I from Međimurje and we know very well what the situation is in our two counties that we have been at the top of the grip in Croatia for some time. Just to clarify why the number of beds should be carefully discussed. So I work at the hospital and I know very well what the number of beds that are available, so here's to be clear, so you need to know that not all beds that stand in the hospital like one number can't be filled, you in one room that's three-bed can't have all three beds filled you need to have patients who are in isolation. That's why all the facilities in the hospital can't be filled, so everyone is because of these isolations. Furthermore, she would mention the problem of ill healthcare professionals who are also in self-insulation, and healthcare professionals know best how hard it is for them to work, and I agree that the populist statements of certain county leaders and directors That everything under control doesn't hold water. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20967	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20968	Honorable MPs, so I've only given statistics. On that day, in Varazdin hospital, which is located at 3 locations of Varazdin, Novi Marof and Klenovnik were a total of 1039 patients' beds, of which 278, Covid beds, 448 total patients, 207 of Covid. So that day 71 Covid bed was free, Covid bed for the sick, and in the paper the headlines in Varazdin are wartime and we send the sick to the tent. And now you can imagine an elderly person who spent her whole life giving out taxes, taxes, health and everything else needs to go to the hospital and with what fear he's going to the hospital because he doesn't know if he's going to get a bed in the hospital or in the tent. It's not proper behavior from anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20969	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20970	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates from other ministries, colleagues and colleagues, so I'm going to try to look back at two waves of the coronary pandemic virus, and I'm going to start there on February 25th, it's been eight months and a few days more since then. What's different that's been the same ever since? We have the same prime minister, same health minister, same virus, different thing. We have a different little opposition and a way of acting. And now that we look at the first wave, everyone says what we knew at that time we didn't know, we all learned as citizens and politicians and scientists learned, everyone had a very short time ahead of them to learn long before we could hope for it. However, what have we learned? We learned to deal with it in accordance with the time we lived and when we looked at some figures, here 15.6. we had 2 infected, the number of patients in total 2.254 in hospital 7 on the respirator no one and season tourist that we had no matter what anyone from the opposition said then. But I remember their statements we don't want elections in the 7th month we go to regulars at the 10th month will be a good situation we know. They knew that back then. And before that, we were certainly discussing this same law, the first amendments of the 17.4. passed by 80 votes to 21 against and 8 abstentions. Look, gentlemen, from the opposition to the amendment that you were giving at the time and what they are in relation to what you're saying today. Now, how we compare, how we fit. If I'm supposed to take his last week at 11 months when the situation is a little escalating, we're the worst in that Europe. Let's take a different look. So let's look at the tables they say I don't know in the total number of infected 17 of all EU countries, not counting all other non-EU countries in Europe. Number of deaths, in our neighbourhood Slovenia 744 per million inhabitants, Austria 674, Italy 944, Hungary 533, Croatia 468. Nothing to brag about, but let's compare because it's all closed there if we remember it well, if not for a good month and a half, the month and a half are all closed. And what do we say? We want to be like Germany, but we want to be a decimal again. In Germany, a penalty for not wearing a mask of EUR 150, a gathering without EUR 225,000. We want to be like them and we don't want to pay anything, I don't want any punishment, we know it. In Italy the mask, not wearing a mask from 400 to 1000 EUR depending on the situation. In France, EUR 135, and how do we act as an opposition? The second wave is coming, it's that different opposition, the second part of the opposition that came to us after the election, mocking the crowns. Let's remember the beginning of the 9th month, we start at the 9th month with 100 and something infected. The 5.9. Freedom Festival, let people protest. It's all right. It's all right. It's where they're painted. One lady, three months we taught her to put on a mask here, three months it took for the lady, who isn't in the debate today, to put on a mask, somehow, to bring order. Whoever in the front row, the Homeland Movement, we heard their representative today, we knew everything back then, but we acted as we wanted because it was politically directed. They were doing research at the time, they weren't focused on the epidemic, and it lasted the entire 9th and 10th months. In this last week, i.e. Today we have a bit bigger. increased number of infected. Today, we heard 3539, tested a total of 769,000 people, almost every fifth citizen in the Republic of Croatia. Let's compare to Slovakia. Slovakia tested all its citizens with these fast tests, almost 5 million people. And the situation from yesterday until today 1200, today 2048, what did we do? There politics makes the same decisions, has looked at the number or some that are closed, here are our neighbours in Slovenia. What's happening to them, and it's all closed? But we know everything. The chief epidemiologists at Mrs. Bencice, I convinced you first, and then Mr. Bully, then Mrs. Broom. Peović, Zekanovic, etc., all of them know and still ask to be included in the headquarters, and the headquarters is the same from that time, the same people. Alemka, Mr. Willi, Mr. Bozinović, etc., same people. Just what do we want? Now we're not going to do anything. We'd be like others who are better than us, and they're not, but we won't take any action, we don't need anything because we're just looking at all our citizens to convince that everything is right. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20971	We've got a few replicas, the first one is, you're a little late, there'll be a next time opportunity, a respected representative of Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20972	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I didn't understand you, did you say who wants us to be like Germany? What, get bigger tickets or why?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20973	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20974	She was a quick replica of Mr. Sanader. Well, you've heard who wants to, so all the time we've heard from the opposition that we have to have a perditional situation, that we have to do everything as they do in Germany, that it's all complicated there. ... Yes, and that everything is great there, but if they have a penalty from, as I said, almost EUR 150 for not wearing a mask anywhere in the open, closed, then we can't do it here because we're for freedom, for the Freedom Festival, as Mr. Grmoj said and there were painted in the front rows, maybe you forgot no, because then it was directed, today it's a little different, but looking at our citizens we call them to account. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] In the first wave, we said "let's stay at home" and that's what the citizens have done, in the second few months we've been calling "be responsible", and that's why we have a problem, and that's why it reacts through additional measures through this law, nothing that no one else has, but we like to call on the others, because probably right now, at this point, we might have little answers, and they don't say good numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20975	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric, you spoke of responsibility, and I think that politicians should really be aware of publicly spoken words that have an impact on the public. By pushing the max into the thread, they sometimes bring oil to the fire and cause a fire that cannot be extinguished and which then affects those who are not guilty of anything. Here and today we listened to attacks on Croatian defenders and column in Vukovar, we listened to attacks on the church and on the believers, and this is repeated from the debate in the debate. And then when it happens that two fitness coaches defile the sacred place in the church and insult in fact other people's sanctity, then none of those who were uplifting that fire are considered responsible, nor should they feel that they should apologize. The crisis from some people brings out the best, some unfortunately draw the worst and we here have the opportunity to watch it every day or listen. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I hope all those who speak here will take over responsibility for what they say. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20977	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20978	Thank you very much, ma'am. Petyr. Well, here's what I'm going to say. I've just written down a statement from a lady. Markotic: "In crises there are expressions of human personality and personality. Those who are good come to the fore and show their best qualities, those who are bad show their bottoms." It was at one point when she had an attack herself and a journalist had an attack. Why? Because we've had situations where opposition to this situation refers in a way that it's completely irrelevant to them and all the time they're saying it's a political kind of organization where, in two waves, we have what, people who are the same, but in the first wave, everything is great, and in the second wave they don't know anything anymore, which is false and trying to paint them politically even though they're not, many of them aren't. And now what are they looking for? They want those politicians to take over as headquarters, politicians. They say we don't want political headquarters, but we're going there to HS, there's no politics, there's going to be decisions. Is that it? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20979	The next replica of respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20980	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, I see you've made an effort, so you've listed how many sentences there are in other countries. Did you maybe give yourself a little more effort, so you listed what the average wages in those countries are? You probably didn't, so I'll read it to you. So in Germany, EUR 2.270, in Italy EUR 1,758, in Denmark, EUR 3,270, in France, EUR 2.225, and in the Republic of Croatia, EUR 802. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20981	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20982	Which, now, it's not, I haven't tried or understood exactly this replica, probably so that's what I'm talking about, we like to compare with these countries when it suits us, but when we need to introduce the measure we're introducing now, we're against it now, we're against it because we want their states that aren't much better than ours. They have the same problems as the whole world, who doesn't have to say they're gone. Here, let's look at the charts. There's as many of them as we want in the whole world of these countries, and now I'm saying, let's get out of here for average wages or what? If the punishments are too high, you suggest a measure that will be different, but there is nothing from you, we are against everything and for all freedom, and we will not have any punishment or anything. As in the car, while you're driving it, there's a punishment, you're gonna tie yourself up or it's not your problem, and if I catch you, you're probably gonna pay for that little violation of yours that you've committed, you've got to pay. And what we're going to do with people, so let's give it time to see what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20983	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20984	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you were well-detected at the beginning, we returned at the beginning of your March and April of this year when, for this headquarters led by me by wonderful and honorable people and professional people, when we called them, when we told them that they were a profession, that they were doing an extraordinary job, are they now after these 8,9 months of fighting the crown less professional or behind this hiding something quite, quite different?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20985	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20986	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I think there's something that the opposition normally does, one policy from day to day, means when we judge daily what it's meant for us. And I said the 9th and 10th months were investigative activities, led by the Most, and they had someone to call every day for that and that, etc. and when they saw that the whole system had practically gone and the media part and so on and the citizens that we had all become burdened with this they had moved on to a new topic. They've already announced the search for a shift and Mr. Minister's interpretation, because what else they can do besides that, they don't know anything. Now we've invited them, let them write down what is a state of emergency, this article and that and what they would do. You won't see it. I guarantee it. You know why? Because there's something to write, and it stays somewhere, so these words go up today, tomorrow maybe no one remembers it anymore. It's their policy. It's up to us to be responsible and to solve it the way we think it's best for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20987	The next replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20988	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Boris, I am interested in what the main goal of the opposition advocates is by listening to their debate, whether it is the protection of our fellow citizens or something else. Why? Because we had a chance to hear here, so let's listen to us, let's vote this out to the two-thirds majority in accordance with Article 17. The Constitution, so we will support it, but we will not support you even though you are doing it constitutionally properly in accordance with Article 16 because it is not according to ours. And then they say we'll send a message to the citizens that they accept these same measures better if they vote us more for these measures. So I wonder what their standards are? Because that's how they protect their fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20989	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20990	I think we've repeatedly explained what they really represent and what they are. which would be this policy of theirs that could be called wood iron, because it's simply all incompatible at the same time, but we must always be somewhere in line with some other countries where there is nothing, there is everything beautiful and everything is normal. [[Intruder: Collars.]] And what, I don't know, in Italy you can go to the balcony or take a little walk just to the store and that's great. Here we are a little bit different and we won't admit it because we're like the worst now in the last week. What happened until then, it was all wiped out, it wasn't good. We argue that we behave responsibly both in the 3rd month and in the 10th month and that we are doing the best we can to make sure that these people can really do their job normally, but something is on the citizens themselves. And that's why every day we invite them to this responsibility, and we too are the ones who have to be that, in a way that we're responsible, which is why we're talking about the weight of the spoken word especially of health care professionals who are here in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20991	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20992	When you spoke to your colleague Boric about the new opposition, I don't know who you were talking about because as far as we're concerned, we never questioned the seriousness of this disease, and you could always see us in the mask assembly, and I can even say that none of us seven club representatives have been infected yet by Covid. Our best example shows how measures should be followed and how this is actually a serious situation, so I don’t know what you’re talking about in that sense. When you said that your colleague Bencic was a major epidemiologist or when you said why we didn't write and propose measures, we did, we wrote, we wrote. Not alone, but with epidemiologists and on the basis of the World Health Organization's data, and you know where the proposal ended, you stayed buried on the agenda, you didn't even want to discuss it. You could've turned him down, but you didn't want to discuss him or anyone else, so you throw a colorful lie when you say give us your proposal, we're open to suggestions. You're not open to suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20993	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20994	As for the new opposition, yes, you are the new opposition, but I say that is why we have the unity of this new opposition and some older opposition, so we are far left and far right all united in trying to politicise the situation, primarily the work of headquarters and say that they no longer have citizens' trust. You say that on behalf of the citizens you represent, no. And now that's exactly how it's supposed to be, you should also check it out a little after five months of the election. And as for the fact that you suggested, of course, according to the rules, maybe one day we'll discuss that proposal. Now we're discussing what you've been complaining about going into two readings now goes into an emergency procedure because that's no good either, and we need to agree with you on a two-thirds majority. Well, with 76 votes, we vote almost everything, the state budget and everything else, which would come to a two-thirds majority with you, what a gap between me and you in the assembly would be, so it would never have been agreed, because you haven't shown a moment of constructiveity in anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20995	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20996	Thank you. Dear counterpart Boris, with the parts of your debate, I can agree, but I would ask you to, and I asked the minister who agreed with me not to talk about the professional headquarters. The headquarters is a political body, if you attack the left part of the opposition as did counterpart Petir because you are being handed over to Vukovar then be fair and say, we in this Croatia have the right to live with the virus and this Croatia has some sanctity such as Vukovar which will respect and then the headquarters and the government will make a political decision, not a professional decision to mark Vukovar. And I've been to Vukovar and it's not a professional decision, it's a political decision. Don't fool the Croatian public anymore, don't make us all look like fools, the headquarters is no expert body, but a political body. And enough with the nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20997	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20998	That's your opinion, Mr. Grmoy. We have a law that clearly says who makes... [[Let's not, let's not, let's not from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u20999	I didn't give you a colleague of the Grmoy, I didn't give you a warning about what you said was stupid, but don't speak from the bench, please. Now I'm giving you a warning, if you can't listen, go outside. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21000	Thank you very much. I don't know what stupidity is to him, maybe I should say that what he said is unwise, maybe the same thing should be given a warning, but this one, when we put together a fellow bush and I don't do it, I just don't do it, and what you're trying to politicize whatever's going on around the headquarters, is based on the law as well as one headquarters that we had when we had a migration crisis and problems on the eastern border. Was that headquarters? Who was in charge, Mr. Ranko Ostojić, right? Was that political expertise or how it was? What did it look like, etc., so it clearly says in the law who makes that headquarters. What we were adding there are people who don't belong there, I don't think so. And you're trying to insult these people specifically Mrs. Markotic and Mr. Capak in every debate here and you're playing epidemiologists here, you. You know what is best for all Croatian citizens and you offer it here every day. What are you talking about, Mr. Grmoy? That's unserious of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21001	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Damir Habib. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21002	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers of State, here is a lot that has already been said in this bill, so every law that we are passing in this high house, so first of all, we need to look at and consider what its purpose is, which is its goal that we want to achieve. We are witnessing how important it is that decisions are made quickly during this pandemic to protect the health and lives of our fellow citizens. It is, of course, important to pay attention to respect for the principle of proportionality or to make sure that measures as their intensity are at the same time such that they strictly meet the needs of the given moment and that they last only as long as the circumstances require it. I recall what was already here on several occasions and said that in September of this year, the Constitutional Court did not accept a number of proposals to initiate the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Civil Protection System Act and to initiate the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has established that it had the headquarters and has the legal authority to adopt the measures referred to in Article 47. Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases as well as other measures aimed at preventing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and the protection of life and health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. No one can dispute how we are in times of special circumstances when it is necessary to take swift and decisive measures, and in such circumstances there is an obligation for the State to take whatever is necessary to protect the lives and health of citizens in accordance with its powers. This is precisely what the public interest is now, therefore, the protection of life and the health of citizens and this public interest has an advantage over the individual rights of citizens and we are all obliged to respect and act according to the prescribed measures. What I would like to point out is the issue of introducing new stakeholders, i.e. persons who will be able to monitor the implementation of security measures to protect the public from infectious diseases. Many talk here today about how police officers will get new powers through the application of this bill. You have to make it clear that that's not true. In fact, police officers have the rights and obligations prescribed by already existing positive regulations or the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, but also the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. This bill does not give authority to police officers, nor to enter apartments, private spaces of citizens, and as we had the opportunity to hear it during today's debate, but also in the public space. In addition, as regards the addition of this law in the section relating to fines for infringements in the event of infringements, it is necessary to say that we already have sanctions in the current law for infringements of the security measure of self-insulation or quarantine for which the fine is also listed. It should also be noted that prescribing fines for proposed offences does not automatically mean that an authorised person cannot and will not apply a milder form of punishment in the form of oral or written warning. The purpose and purpose of this law is not to punish citizens and should be made clear. As should be said, each law contains provisions that prescribe sanctions in the event of a violation of any other law. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to protect the lives and protection of our fellow citizens, or we could say prevention. Every day we see that for objective reasons it is impossible to predict, for example, a new focus, the course of the epidemic, so with decisions we need to be a few steps ahead and ready for anything. In conclusion, I would refer to the situation actually in the county from which I come, so from Varazdin County, this way I would appeal to greater coordination of the city and county because in these difficult and challenging times our citizens expect clear unequivocal messages and unity between the people who directly chose to lead their environment. At a time when the bad news is everyday, when they face problems that were unimaginable until a few months ago, they expect us to calm their sense of panic and uncertainty. They do not expect panic reactions from local leaders, the transfer of blame for their own irresponsibleness, unpreparedness and non-compliance in the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21003	We've got a few replicas, though. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21004	Thank you, Vice President, here's an esteemed colleague of yours as a lawyer, can you tell us that the public interest in the adoption of this Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases? I just said that the phenomenon of the pandemic didn't know how much we know today, but we still don't know if you think these measures are headquarters to protect those weakest and most infirm in the community and that we're actually going to make it easier for health care professionals we hear on a daily basis to appeal to consciousness and actually make sure that at least one less person comes, unfortunately to a hospital that we shouldn't, and that we act responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21005	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21006	Thank you very much. I agree with you completely. So first of all, we need to listen to the profession and we have no reason not to believe that any measures proposed are not prior to that, of course, coordinated and probably passed all the instances that need to be passed. As regards the principle of proportionality, if you look at the decisions or decisions of the Constitutional Court which I mentioned from September, for example concerning the question and the obligation to use protection masks, it is clearly stated, and I can also quote that given the reasons why the ministry explained the adoption of the contested measure, given the World Health Organization's recommendation and recommendation, the Constitutional Court's assessment that imposing the obligation to use masks on the person or the medical masks on certain disputed decisions of the headquarters constitutes a necessary measure to protect the health of the entire population on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these measures, which have so far been foreseen by law, have passed a test of proportionality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21007	The next is a replica of the esteemed Uncle's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21008	Thank you. Comrade Habiban, we have come from Varazdin County and have been witnessing for days the efforts of Varazdin Mayor Cacic to introduce a curfew. Among other things, he made a public announcement. Prime Minister Plenkovic told him he couldn't, and President Milanovic told him that he would immediately put them in the line. And he doesn't stop. He's dramatic, he's doing drama, he's insulting people, he's doing photo montages, people are writing him to a place closed because of Covid and Cacic, he's glued their icons even though they haven't glued it, mostly the drama doesn't stop. He's calling for a state of war, and now I don't know if he's trying to make a living at last, or if the situation is so dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21009	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21010	Thank you very much. I would refer to what I last said, so what I'm saying all the time, and that's what you say when we say locally that we call community especially in this situation where we are. Mr. Cacic would not judge his actions or his misdeeds or his moves lately, but what a fact man likes to be on television, he obviously recognized the opportunity to do so, but from this place I strongly condemn. I believe that this situation is certainly not appropriate for us to collect any political points, and that is what Colic, in fact, said when he replicated that trail, in fact, this and his reactions have recently been. And I repeat them most strongly, because if that's the way we're going to have some arguments that we might be able to pass over to the other side about March and their behavior and where someone was at that time, but we're not going to go to that level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21011	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21012	Thank you. You mentioned the Constitutional Court's decision, so I'm curious because here we heard different contradictions about it. How do you see the decision of this Constitutional Court to these new amendments to the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21013	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21014	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I believe that the Constitutional Court’s decision regarding the application of Article 16, Article 17. The constitution is very clear. So, alone, alone, now I'll answer you don't be impatient, so the Constitutional Court is...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21015	Comrade Voter, please stop throwing from the scene. So what is it with you that you cannot help? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21016	Thank you very much. So, what I can do, I can repeat what has already been said several times, but obviously it is necessary to say once again, so the Constitutional Court itself said in its decision that it is not competent to assess whether or not the Croatian Parliament should, in certain special circumstances, be it them or not, referred to in Article 17. The Constitution, such as the Covid-19 situation, applies Article 17, is the power at the Croatian Parliament. So, the Croatian Parliament has made a decision to go to Article 16, so all these calls for qualified majority definitely fall into the water and the matter is quite clear, but I say maybe here better lawyers than me, but they still haven't convinced me of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21017	The next is the replica of the respected representative Antolic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21018	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Habian, you are also the president of the City Council of the City of Varazdin, and you have now said several times that health protection is in the public interest. Is it in public interest to protect your health and your coffee in Međimurje when you left town where your fellow citizens died in a hospital for coffee in Međimurje?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21019	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21020	Thank you very much. Here it is on the trail of exactly what Mr. Cacic is doing, so you're putting in context my, not mine, anyone's name with persons who unfortunately have passed away or are fighting at this point for life is really beneath each level. What I did, I did nothing that was illegal at that time, so the Varazdin County introduced certain measures long before it was introduced so introduced at national level to point out the indifference of these measures. So on the illogicality of the measures that he insisted and two weeks of shouting the mayor along with his party at the level of this county. Two weeks of noise. And we see the result unfortunately in the hospital, and the consequences of what we have in Varazdin County are somewhere else, so they're not cafes. Where did it all start? That's a little bit of a question, it started in the hospital because of the poor running of the hospital. Take a look at that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21021	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative, Uncle. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21022	Article 238, namely, Harbian, was not sincere, there was no strong expansion of the crown in the spring, as the reformers were in Cuba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21023	Thank you very much, you get a warning because it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, this respected representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21024	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative 10 days ago when the crown crisis escalated in Varazdin County you were drinking coffee claiming that you don't think that the measures of the coffee shop closing will yield some results as you are today confirming. However, you claim that, and then the Varazdin County was the first in Europe for the drasticity of the crown crisis, but today you probably support the measures that apply to all of Croatia that your HDZ introduced, precisely your HDZ government when all the cafes are closed, and here you claim that you are not, that Croatia is not the first in Europe by the crown crisis. I'm a little illogical about this inconsistency in your attitudes, and I have to ask myself, and here when you're so against the measures that Cacic has advocated, can we expect you won't even have 76 hands? Reformists are part of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21025	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21026	Here's what I'm going to do now, if you allow the illogicalness, as you said inconsistency with me, to see that it's gone. So, you need to view the Varazdin County as a region, so these measures that have been adopted, have been adopted as I said in coordination and I assume a national headquarters's reflection. The measures concerning the Varazdin County are what I said, I said for the reason that you have large companies in Varazdin County that employ thousands, two, three thousand workers. So the source of the infection was somewhere else. There was a way to prevent and prevent it. What was the county headquarters doing all summer? What was he doing at the 3rd month? That's what my fellow uncle said. So you knew where there was a possibility of a greater infection. Varazdin restaurants and cafes from summer are empty, they've been empty since summer and no one can say it's a source of infection. I said hospital, big companies that, of course, need to continue their production, but if it had been done before with preventive employee testing, it might have been a lot better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21027	Let's not get off the bench, please. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21028	Thank you. You were talking about a fellow Habian, you were talking about county headquarters, here's the situation from my county. We have the same problem, but what about the way HDZ behaves in that county, say, no. We had no idea, neither me nor anyone else, that we were honoring the intricacies, that only politicians were sitting there, even though the mayor had replaced his deputy and said that he was no longer his deputy, but that the deputy mayor, although there is a problem and that there is a budget for such situations, even though we have a huge increase in the number of cut, Istria beside us five times less, every day. And that's that responsibility, us who understand what the national headquarters is doing, what they're doing regionally, what our local headquarters and those who see politics from everything and everything bothers them. But when their people do it, then everything's fine. And that's where the message should be sent clearly. If there is no trust in people what we can expect from Croatian citizens That's why it's about the waist and the headquarters that... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21029	The answer of the esteemed lawman, Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21030	Dear counterpart Boris, I absolutely agree with you, so I see we have a similar situation, so obviously as far as the county is concerned. So I repeat, I appeal again to both the city and the county to really be coordinated and to take measures or to propose measures, to initiate measures that are in the interest of health protection and, above all, the lives in our county, and I do not repeat that they are using this terrible situation in which we all find ourselves for May next year because I think that the citizens will also know then and certainly will not value the way they might think they are, and will certainly be able to save some lives and protect the health of all people of the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21031	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21032	Thank you very much. Comrade Habian, here's one really well-intentioned remark, I really think politicians must be an example to all citizens. And I was really embarrassed and honestly surprised when I read in the paper that the mayor of Czecho, but you and your colleague, the Yankee, said that you were going for coffee in Međimurje. In this way you actually showed not so much that you are against what Mr. Cacic was looking for at that point, reminding me that these measures he asked for were actually blessed by the national headquarters. So on the one hand you were talking about the illogicality of the measure back then, and now the cafes are actually closed everywhere, right? So when you went to see us in Međimuri, who guarantees that you couldn't transmit the disease to anyone at the time or that you picked up from one of them? I agree that what counterpart Celic said is not a dialogue between the town of Varazdin and Varždin County is a really bad message. Here's a well-intentioned remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21033	The answer of the esteemed lawman, Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21034	Thank you very much. So, I can repeat what I answered to my colleague, Vupori, and what I replied to my colleague Ahmetovic, as regards the measures, so I talked about the regional application of the measures, and I talked about it and I talked about where the source in the opinion is, not only me, but the people who live in Varazdin County where the source of the problem is and why the infection in Varazdin County is escalating at a certain point. So that's something to think about. If that means anything to you, I'm the same day, since that coffee of mine was interpreted in the way it was interpreted, I said I'm publicly sorry if I hurt someone by it. It's not a problem for me to say, I don't have a problem with that public apology, it's not, it's not the first time, and what I think about this coffee is my opinion because if it's easier for you right now, here I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21035	Thank you very much. Next, the next debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric. I'm looking at a small number of reports and a pace of replicas, and it seems to me that I can estimate that if it stays that way by midnight we'll be around, here it is, so we know. Here you go, dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, we all know the day of the Covida-19 epidemic. We've been dancing with the virus for almost nine months, listening to national headquarters measures, and at least sticking to most of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Despite the alarming epidemiological situation, despite the growing number of people infected and deceased daily, despite the overburdening of the health system and the fatigue of healthcare professionals, the national headquarters still does not explain its decisions before the highest House of the Republic of Croatia which we have repeatedly appealed and sought. We have witnessed the hardworking of headquarters in the adoption of measures, double standards, inconsistency, adaptation of measures, and at which point it was appropriate for Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Government, to disobey the profession with consequent mistrust and confusion of citizens in the past few months. Remember how many times we have asked for the timely introduction of certain measures, a clear plan and a strategy for the adoption of measures from both this booth and numerous presses and communications. Remember how many times doctors have asked for stricter measures, how much we have offered our assistance from the opposition, constructive proposals and asked for consensus. And what happened? The delay in the steps, the inequality in the newly declared measures, was not taken into account how much the county was affected, so-called. a scoreboard or degree in the adoption of measures depending on the current situation in a particular county. There was time to close cafes, restaurants, gyms, etc. adapts to an epidemiological situation in a region. But now that the virus is all around us, it's too late. Stronger measures are needed, so please don't twist what we're saying. And yes, discipline is needed for each of us, stubborn and reckless and disturbing public order and peace when an individual is warned of breach of epidemiological measures should be fined if such a unconscious individual is deafened to a warning. And especially those individuals need to distinguish between those who accidentally or by mistake do not put on a mask. Those really should be warned first. Penalties must not be too high or too dragonish. They must not serve to fill the budget but to keep people in further education and information away from violating measures. And do you really think it's okay to base the measures on ratting out neighbors? Then how will you justify entering individual homes? Furthermore, the system of monitoring of contact with infected people has not worked for some time because of the large number of infected and under-infectious epidemiologists, which is because of the fact that the epidemiologists pointed out that people were keeping in touch with whom they were in contact. Why are they keeping it secret? Mostly because they are afraid of the workplace and are less self-insulating, but also because some employers threaten workers not to report contacts, workers drink paracetamols in the morning so that they do not have an increased temperature when they come to work, they must not be self-insulated if their children are ill, etc., even if such employers should be punished, and not prioritized to transfer all responsibility to the citizens. If you want greater trust, Prime Minister Plenkovic must apologize to the public on behalf of the government and the national headquarters for his current inequality in the work of headquarters and pour his ashes. The minister himself admitted that there were certain peas. I think we need to reset the whole situation. And as I have suggested myself in several of the club's views, we should start from the beginning with better communication with citizens. The national headquarters, in cooperation with the profession of epidemiologists, infectologists, in a wider circle of experts, must communicate with the public on the subject of epidemic and the reasons for the tightening of measures. Adequate compensation for entrepreneurs who are forbidden to work without speaking. It's all a prerequisite for people to turn away from breaking measures at all. And you end up doing a Cost-Benefit analysis. On the one hand, you have the costs of respirators, for protective equipment, for additional equipment of Covid departments, tents, re-purposes of the hotel for the accommodation of the sick, you have sick and deceased citizens who have no price, you have a tense health system, and on the other hand you have the costs of a greater number of tests you need and what we keep talking about. We also talked about online school for several classes of primary schools, secondary schools and colleges over 4 weeks. And I talked about work from home, but nothing happened. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21037	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21038	Thank you. Comrade Marić, correct me if I'm wrong because I'm not a doctor for Covid, is wearing a mask more times a day, the same mask more days in a row as effective as if you don't have it? And what are we going to do by this law when people who can't afford 30 masks a day decide, 30 masks a month decide to wear the same mask for 30 days in a row?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21039	There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21040	Yeah, people are different financial options, and that's what I'm saying is that it's always supposed to be repeated, firstly how properly you wear a mask, secondly how many hours you can wear a mask. Those people who are of poor property status, I think they should have been involved, and part of it included local self-government and donated masks to such people who don't have this money, so I call on them to continue doing it, but education, education and education. So maybe there's a little reference to what might have been resented by headquarters, first it's said that masks don't work, then it's said that they're rolling, so as it went forward, the knowledge of the virus actually adapted and the instructions on wearing masks. So, of course, the whole community and those people who do not have financial assistance should be involved. Here, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21041	The next replica of the esteemed representative Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21042	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Maric, let me know in your presentation you have several times cited what measures are good now, can you explain to us a little about how we are today objecting to this request that these measures should have been adopted in time, that it should have been applied light in time so that we are not fat in red today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21043	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21044	Thank you very much. Well, actually, that's what I'd like my colleagues on this side to understand. So we really want to warn that some of the measures that are now being taken or being brought into this period have been somewhat delayed. So, in 15.10, it was said that there must be a traffic light, so on. a traffic light or a degree of action. Why wait a month and a half? Why didn't it all approach when there was still the possibility of regional adjustment? So that's what we're talking about. So we're not questioning the fact that measures are necessary. So, now we need stricter measures, but we're sorry that the waist was not being listened to, so on several occasions the representatives of the medical associations, not once reported, asked to introduce stricter measures, we've been looking for who we are and the profession, so the doctors we work in the system and we know what the current problems are, but here we didn't go on time in that. And we regret that in that sense, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21045	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21046	Good evening, all of us, the esteemed Vice President of the Assembly, the esteemed ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are all already satisfied as our citizens with the long term duration of this pandemic, we are tired of all these measures and we are reviewing all the decisions that are being made with this. We are often and the causes of our citizens' confusion are both political decisions and headquarters, but also us MPs who often send contradictory messages to citizens with our behaviours and with some attitudes in the Croatian Parliament. I'll remind you during the Homeland War the loss in one day 50 people was the alarm bell that rocked the entire country. It was then called the same for national unity and fortunately we managed to achieve it and it brought victory in the Homeland War, and this proved the successful community that acts unitedly. If it's a struggle here I see great around this headquarters it needs to be expanded then I too advocate that they should be extended with the reference some other persons to achieve unity. If it is necessary for members of political parties without actually having a dilemma about whether the decisions of the headquarters are relevant or not. We liberals do not, not this, actually do not support the restriction of any civil and personal freedoms, but I think that in this case personal freedoms should be in the second plan because the first plan needs to be the health of our citizens and that is why we will support this decision. If we reconsider some of these decisions that concern only the issues of carrying protective equipment, what will appear tomorrow, which message we send to the citizens when it comes to cleavage of the population. There have already been major doubts in society whether to be vaccinated with a new vaccine or not. I'll remind you that modern medicine has defeated actually some diseases that our grandparents have been faced in history and that have actually been doing a great killing of the population in, all in their youth have lost one of the brothers or sisters and from the diseases that have actually gone into oblivion today as measles or TBC and that is, in fact, the contribution of modern medicine. Now the question is actually going to be asked the question of both vaccinations and dissections of the population, and it is crucial that we stop at the end of this epidemic. In fact, what I'm calling for is if we need to be unique, if we need to expand this headquarters with some new reference accomplices, but we need to be unique in this assembly in making these decisions because it's the only thing that's going to stop this epidemic, is what other message we're sending to our people and to our citizens, if we fellow MPs in front of an enemy like this can't agree on where the good of the country actually is. We will support as I said this decision because I think that in the first place should be citizens' health, and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21047	Thank you very much. Uh, did you, uh, colleague Bulj, raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or replica? Yeah, good, 'cause you turned the other way, so I didn't get it. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21048	My colleague Klasic, I don't think we're in any conflict here, nor that we're discussing something that's incompatible. We're only discussing one thing, limiting rights, human rights, whether it's about protecting health, and I think we're all going to find ourselves at the same level more or less. What scares me as an agent is we limit rights without real legitimacy. If we're limiting rights then it's clear that it has to be the two-thirds majority of the MPs here. I think that we will quickly agree in the interest of our citizens, that we will quickly find ways to protect their health, but what we are trying to say when we make those decisions, and we need to make them, far from needing them, when, when we make those decisions, then no one can question their legitimacy and legality anymore. So legitimacy and legality must exist, that's two-thirds of all MPs, and then all these objections fall into another plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21049	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21050	Here, here it is, thank you for asking, I think I also don't have a dispute about it, if it takes two-thirds of a third of a deal, but I think we're actually wasting our time buying time developing and opting for this epidemic if we don't act fast. If there is a fee to be made, so we will bring in, and I think that we are all so smart and unique that these are the measures that are necessary to bring in because we have always irresponsible citizens who will not follow the measures, even if I am against the penalization of any kind of life, but we are aware that, in fact, if you do not impose any measures on them, it will not actually be desired to act on the welfare of the community. It will be comfortable enough to endanger in fact health and individual and wider communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21051	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21052	My colleague Klasic, human rights and freedoms are the basics that we have in the Constitution, and we want to keep it. Of course, under certain circumstances some freedoms and rights due to health and any others, who some other threats must be reduced. But you as a liberal as a coalition partner of the ruling must know that trust in the headquarters of the people has lost. When there was one hand missing to vote Government, your fellow parliamentary representative Hrebak was in isolation like all other citizens. However, your colleague has received confirmation from Capak directly from headquarters or I don't know who he can come here among parliamentary deputies and that he can violate the measure and vote for the government, and we are being persecuted here as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when one... Therefore, all measures have been violated. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21053	Thank you. Dear Representative Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21054	Comrade Bull, do you actually know the real truth about what happened to Mr. Hrebhak? Before the measure was taken in the morning, Mr. Hrebac made a test and made a test in those 14 days seven times, paid out of his own pocket 4,900 kuna at that time, which could not be said afterwards for individual representatives who were both in self-insulation and were supposed to adhere to the measure so they did not observe, we saw that there was everything in that story and I think that there was a relevant opinion he actually received from an epidemiologist with whom he consulted. They said the report was worth 48 hours and he repeated the results every 48 hours. That's what he got the information and it went well, that time, in the town of Bjelovar, that he didn't do so, and as you know, the entire city council of Bjelovar was in isolation. Who would run that town, if they didn't, I mean the porter down there, and she's actually a secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21055	The next is the replica of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21056	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you have begun your debate with a statement you are a liberal. You have to keep saying you're a liberal because your actions don't say that. Your President Hrbac says a few hours ago we see an example of other countries that have imposed radical measures not to produce results, but we will vote for radically touching personal freedom because we do not have time for compromises. You here support the political measures of headquarters. Political measures of headquarters, not professional, political measures of headquarters. I wonder if this is a new liberal lesson and what great liberal thinker was taking this lesson? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21057	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21058	Here we are, whether we agree or not on our liberal measures, I think liberal measures are also primarily the preservation of jobs and economies but also the health of citizens. What, not the waists? Now I'm going to tell them as a second, not as, don't get into my word I didn't come to you. [[Come on, let's not get them out of place.]] What I was about to say is, we now have a headquarters that's the only one that's relevant. I also suggested that if you don't think that headquarters is good, I'm in favour of expanding the headquarters with new members, but also what we can have now, we have this headquarters that is, and I consider it relevant for deciding. We can't really rely on the opinions of someone else we have if we voted that the measures it brings are actually the ones that legally commit us. And I trust them until we say otherwise, we must follow these measures. Although I personally disagree with some measures, I will abide by the rules imposed by the state or the government of this Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21059	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is a respected representative of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, respected State Secretarys, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think that as far as at least the SDP is concerned, it is not at all questionable whether we should do anything to protect the health of Croatian citizens and whether certain measures need to be applied, even to impose certain sanctions for violating them. It's clear from our public advances for sure two months now, we are. We're talking about both content and procedure here. In all of this, if we are to take certain steps we insist on respecting the Constitution and respecting the laws of the Republic of Croatia. In the spring of 108 MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament gave full confidence to give certain powers to the National Civil Protection Centre in order to manage the crisis more operationally without delay. More than half the law was passed in one day. 18.3. it seems to me that he was sent from the Government to the Croatian Parliament, 19.3. was voted in the Croatian Parliament. And don't plant it in a way that we don't work in the same interest, which is to protect the health of Croatian citizens, don't plant it in a way that we can't be quick and operational when we realize the seriousness of the situation and don't frame it in a way that we want to slow down certain processes. To be clear, it's for starters. Now let's go to content. We can discuss why we're making these decisions today. Germany's ban on gathering for more than 25 citizens in public spaces and more than 10 in private spaces is the same as punishing non-carrying masks you know when? In late September, when the number of infected came to over 50 per 100,000 inhabitants. We bring when? Now. They brought in 50 of the infected, more than 50 of the 100,000 inhabitants. We're bringing these measures into a situation where we have a population of 100,000 in 2 weeks, a thousand 41. Are we too late? We did. When we talk about the method of adoption, I'm going to stay on the subject a little bit longer. We can talk about the level of punishment now. 500 kuna within 3 days pay 250. There are smaller ones. In Serbia, I think it's 300. There are even bigger ones that reach up to three thousand kunas. But we can discuss it, and we don't have to do the same as we can to discuss whether, as some other countries, we should have thought about punishing even more relapsing, so you will pay 50 euros in Vienna if you don't wear a mask. But if you repeat the offense, you will pay 500. That's not what our law predicts. Okay. Similarly, we never thought about whether we should punish ourselves for not wearing the mask of people who are over Covid-19 who are not actually dangerous to the environment, nor is the environment dangerous to them. I'm not talking about the minister here. He is likely at a symbolic level to show that the mask should be worn. I'm talking about young people, old people, retired people. That's not what we discussed today. We don't know what to do with them. Obviously we're going to punish them because symbolically they're not wearing a mask or any other reason, I don't see it right now. When we talk about punishing or determining the excess of measures in private areas by gathering more than 10 people. It is not clear how the police will determine if he is in an apartment, a private apartment of more than 10 people. Someone's saying from the door. This can be determined for noise, but the number of persons in the apartment cannot be determined from the door except to believe in the word, and that is not to determine the fact that certain penalties can be imposed. I don't know how you're gonna do that. If you're going to enter homes to determine that number, then we have a serious problem and we're warning you about that. In that case, you are entering constitutional civil rights and in this case you cannot avoid the activation of Article 17. The Constitution as well as you were aware of it in the spring when you wanted to monitor the movement by monitoring citizens so as not to violate self-insulation or isolation, so you gave up both the measures and the activation of Article 17. I just don't know if you've given up on the measure because you'd have to ask for a two-thirds majority, or you've estimated that it really isn't necessary. The two-thirds majority is no bogeyman. Arsen is a Bauk, the two-thirds majority is not a bogeyman. We're for dialogue, we're for bilateral communication. We are for co-operation, but we are not for unfettered communication and public deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21061	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Please, somebody's got a microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21062	Thank you. So, fellow Members of the Voice can learn anything in this assembly, so here I am, as a master of political science, I have heard that liberalism means job, and Social Democrats means freedom. I guess that's how it is, huh? But good. What I wanted to replicate to you is actually this second part that you said we can be operational and we can agree very quickly, especially when it comes to our citizens. But you know what that means? That means we need to come to an agreement. This means that HDZ should listen to a second opinion. This means that HDZ will not and must not steal other people's ideas then, because I must, for the sake of the public of Croatia, and I must say to the political public, so in the crisis at the beginning of the year, we have had a whole series of legislative proposals that have been rejected or have not even come to the debate, and the HDZ has taken over these same proposals, have been implanted in its legislative proposals. And I'm not sorry that we understand each other. In fact, we helped our economy. We did those suggestions. But the other thing is the problem, who's politically profiting and who's collecting what the Dalmatian dictionary would say, you're from Zadar's residence, cheap punch. Well, that same HDZ. If we're interested in citizens, then consensus must be a public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21063	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21064	I didn't mean to politicize anything in this debate, and I even tried to be as constructive as possible. But unfortunately, there has been politicization and the work of the national headquarters, and the politicization of the management of the coronary crisis. And at that moment, the trust of Croatian citizens began to fall in what the headquarters was doing. In fact, what the government does over the back of headquarters. And that is why, at this point, unfortunately, we have a situation of the latest research where more than 50% of Croatian citizens believe that the government is going the wrong way. And trust in headquarters is also a key problem that we are facing right now. And if she were smart in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then she would just go the other way and insist on this Croatian Parliament and point out the division of responsibilities and common interests if you will in this case even national interests. Because we are in danger right now. We're not in war, we're not in the territory as Mr. Rainer said it was interpreted through article 16, but we are even worse things where our enemy is actually quite unknown and undefined.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21065	Next replica. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear vice presidents at home, you mention the two-thirds majority and 101 MPs. You may have said that a little bit more subtle than your colleague Hajdukovic. What your colleague Hajdukovic said earlier to the Croatian Parliament is something unheard of. He said if we bring in 101 votes there's nothing to question. This is a total ignorance of the Constitution, the rights of a parliamentary representative, it does not matter which measure is taken mostly, but whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or whether it is proportionate or not. 115 MPs can pass the wrong law and the wrong measure and will fall in the Constitutional Court if it is not proportionate and if it is not adopted properly. Therefore, calling for something to be in accordance with the Constitution because it would be brought by 101 MPs means not knowing the Constitution, not knowing the laws, not knowing the rights and obligations of parliamentary deputies and otherwise not known in Croatian everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21067	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21068	We all swore here when we became representatives of the Constitution and we must all stick to it, if you are now calling Mr. Hajdukovic I appeal to you. So the Constitution is not a shopping center or a supermarket from which we will take what we do not like at a certain point, and reject what we like. The constitution is something that binds us, and you keep pretending like you don't know that Constitution, so you mention proportionality. Article 16 refers to the depreciation of a certain part and the scope of freedom of citizens under regular circumstances. When you mentioned the Penal Code today, that's it. Depriving someone of freedom, but strictly proportionally, means justification of the measure and completely decided. In these cases of state of emergency, war, threat, natural disasters, precisely because of the fact that it is not possible to determine the proportionality of the institutions of the two-thirds majority, and that is the essence of the whole problem. Here we don't really have a choice, but the same as the follow-up, because the next step, which is the next step, tomorrow you can de facto most of all go on to track citizens, track their cell phones. You're declaring a curfew. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's not something to bring here, it's even less Usually most of them, if there are no preconditions. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21069	We have this breach of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21070	Thank you very much. So Article 235 was injured, the replica was used to replicate menus, not speakers, but I must also point out. Ignorance of the Constitution of my colleague Bačić, if we're going to push the max to the finish line, and then we can say the state of war will declare the ordinary majority, but it's okay, and maybe the state of war won't declare it, maybe everyone will declare it but it's not right. So it's ad absurd bringing absolutely nowhere. I am telling you that we will have a decision that will stand behind everyone and will be respected so that no legitimacy can be questioned. It's the principle of grondnorm that's continental law [[Intruder: Time.]] if you didn't know what a fellow Bačić was, not a court, not a court that... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21071	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica to Mr. Baric, and you have a warning. The next replica is Commissioner Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21072	Dear fellow Glasovac, in your debate you highlighted the problem of the unknown that it will be determined that more than 10 people are gathered in the house. So I'm going to answer you, the government has decided that this is determined by the rattling of neighbors where they, our neighbours who need to help us especially in these difficult times, are actually going to become heartless collaborators in endangering fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution. People are asked by Minister Beros and the government of the Republic of Croatia to show that they suspect other people, that they become wolves in times really hard for each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21073	My colleague Ahmetovic must admit that I was surprised by this idea, or a statement, that he would, in some way, appeal to neighbors to report neighbors and doubt that in a particular home, something is happening that has more than 10 people. I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to my neighbors to report violence in the flats around them when they hear screams and noises, because women are the ones who are particularly threatened in the crown, especially in this situation of stress, pressure and ever closer, approaching the lockdown. And then finally what else is missing in this law? So we decided to cut down on the average, suspend certain civil constitutional rights, encourage neighbors to rat out those who gather in private homes in a larger number, and then what we've earned here is still missing from the law and we're going to reward those snitches with a certain reward. He shoots at something else. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21074	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21075	I thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you know I'm not a doctor, and I know you're not a doctor, and we're talking about a protective mask here. Some epidemiologists say that a man who's over the coronary virus doesn't get antibodies, so it means he should wear a protective mask. Others have the same time of flu and have other respiratory disorders and should also be protected. And under number three, we can't share people in public space or how you think to prove when you enter public administration, in a store, in a tram that you're over the coronary virus. So I think you should wear it whether someone's over or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21076	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21077	Honestly, I don't mean anything, I just asked a question just like you said that people who got over the coronary virus don't necessarily have to be called that protected 3, and by some and six months. I also know that there are people who have a problem because of other health problems and can't wear masks. So what do we do with them? Is it going to be some kind of relief to them? I don't know how we're gonna punish kids in schools for not wearing masks. I don't know a lot of answers to questions I don't have, but I'm not, I'm not professional and I like to listen to the profession. I wish the government and this headquarters had listened to the profession of the past month and a half and their appeals, their screaming and those people who watch death in the eyes every day to save other people's lives and those people who are scientists who know how to do projections and where we've been convinced in these months and a half that they've been speaking exact projections and exact.../incomprehensible/... where luck that others have listened to the profession today we wouldn't be here where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21078	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21079	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, I'm surprised here somehow seems like the government doesn't want to. HDZ share responsibility. This crisis management isn't so successful that you don't want to share it if we're willing to share it with you. As an example, someone might be here if the scientific advice had other professions like sociologists, so maybe psychiatrists, so maybe if there was a psychiatric program, we wouldn't have a colleague who committed suicide, and we wouldn't have orders in some hospitals again that we'd be intubated by psychiatrists tomorrow because in 14 days now we have to go through intensive care training. It could've been done in time. What confuses me is the question that why you don't want to and know what sociology means about the word cohesion and how social cohesion is achieved when we missed social cohesion, i.e. What you call citizens' trust. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21080	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21081	Well, fellow Members, my colleague Boric doesn't even hear me, it's not even the need to share responsibility, but it's the need for those man shows and with the attitude of the states it's me. Because look, you have a situation in which we have a National Civil Protection Centre headed by a non-civil state rather than a Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior. That same Home Secretary is being watched by who? He's watching himself. Civil headquarters is overseeing the government. But there's one link missing in the whole story. The government is otherwise supervised by the Croatian Parliament in its operation except here. There's actually no surveillance here. We didn't get any reports here. Citizens, we don't get answers, we don't get reasons why certain measures are being imposed. We also have a problem here when we ask questions we're being accused of not knowing what, destroying the system. That's the problem. Okay, gentlemen, you brought us where you are, is that your credit for winning in the first half? then you will take responsibility for both these figures today and what will happen next 2 months. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21082	The last replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21083	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Glasovac, so all spring we've heard we've got a tough fall ahead of us, and we're already slowly entering winter, and now we're getting one weekend law. And what's in that law? I'm going to look back at that, in this replica of mine, that way of tracking people in apartments whether they're doing parties or family lunches or dinners or more where there are more than 10 people. As we heard from Minister Beros this spring that the great mortality in the House of Elders and Retired in Split is the fault of the virus so it won't actually be anyone's fault, but a neighbor who, as I have already said before, will be the zinc of the neighbours. Do we, just to ask ourselves, do we want such a law that we will really allow the neighbors to no longer talk at the stairs, but the neighbor will have an ear and listen to the other door? Whether there are more than 10 people there or not. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21084	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21085	Well, fellow Tarritate, I don't really have this answer to your replica except to tell you that you're absolutely right. You're asking some rhetorical questions that are meant to be. I'm confused with some statements from both spring and these today. We're in the spring here at the 2nd month Mr. Minister said the disease is at the flu level there's no room for panic. In the third month, Mr. Capak doesn't ask people to wear masks when entering the store and mail it doesn't make sense in healthy people. Mrs. Grba Bujevic, former member of the headquarters today, you cannot stop the coronary virus with a mask she will not protect you so don't buy them. The other day we hear that the measures we took in October have resulted in the reduction of the number of infected and stagnating where Mr Đikić then shows that this is not really so, and then this is an offended man who is a member of the national or German Academy of Science, and in Croatia they actually told him once already if you don't like it here, go elsewhere and we don't need you. It's a one-of-a-kind and-a-kind approach. That I can't be surprised at all. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21086	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21087	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have heard a lot of expert opinions today, I would rather listen to the recommendations of the government's scientific advice than with due respect to all MPs and MPs, which was spoken of by the distinguished representative Ahmetovic on political measures. In order for political measures to be taken here, I agree that they have a political connotation, but it is much more appropriate in the government's scientific advice to say whether a measure of self-insulation should last 14 days or 10 days, rather than what respected MPs and representatives as representatives of the people could discuss it here. The topic is whether this is the constitutional category Article 16, Article 17 is much more appropriate for me to discuss in the Croatian Assembly at a plenary session on the subject. As far as the government's scientific advice is concerned, let's demystify it a little bit. Do you know how many members of the government's scientific council, members of the HDZ? One and one is a member of the SDP, all others are not members of political parties. It is mainly about experts working on prestigious universities within and outside the Republic of Croatia. And to me, the more metricative opinion of Professor Polassek, which I believe you have heard of, or Professor Rudan, one of the world's recognised epidemiologists than what he's going to say on this side or on this side of it by one of the MPs and MPs. I'm also accused of sexism, the distinguished representative Boric, of what you're talking about suicide, you know what your level is. It's a level like I'm telling you right now as activists who've spent the rest of their lives devoted to women's rights that you're responsible for one woman being killed by some asshole man. The suicides, unfortunately, happen. There is a prevention... of health care professionals that the expert group has accepted. Yesterday we had a psychiatric clinic called Sparrow 6 colleagues and colleagues who asked for help. It's done. Croatian Psychological Society has prepared a suicide prevention programme in people of older age especially in institutions. I do know little about mental health, and what this government does and what it does to headquarters. The headquarters has political connotations each and so does this Croatian. No one escapes that political responsibility. On January 28th, when Prime Minister Plenkovic spoke about the virus's coronary problem, some declared him a ridicular. As for the 1st case of the 25.02 Coronon, the first closure of 11/03 was called for by some at that time by extraordinary measures, the state of war, the application of Article 17 and the legitimate right to discuss it. Now, at the moment when the Czech organizations happened, of course, that the expert associations of doctors who are the most burdened at this point will advocate as much restrictive measures as possible. If you ask me in my heart, I would ask for even more restrictive measures, because I work daily at a health care facility. And in our facility there are Covid positive patients who need professional help. But if you ask my countryman, Marina Medak, if these measures are restrictive, he will say, as a representative who fights for the rights of the caterer, that they are restrictive. So we can discuss whether they're too restrictive, whether they're too liberal, and we won't agree. Who's gonna be in scientific advice? Prof. Djikic could have been on scientific advice. There could have been a lot of others. He could have been a professor. Staglar, Professor. Chicin Shain, and somewhere you need to have a limited number of people named in the Scientific Council of Government. And in the end, the World Health Organization did not talk about it today. Three basic variables. Epidemiology. Are we controlling the outbreak in Croatia at this time? Yeah. The health system. Is the health system too tense at this point? Yeah. Is it working? Yeah. Public health supervision. Are we tracking a minimum of 80% of new cases of their close contact? With all the problems I can say yes. And finally. This isn't sprint. This is a marathon, and we're gonna win this marathon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21088	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21089	Thank you. Therefore, Article 238 was injured. During the hearing, a representative shall not belittle or insult the chairperson or other representatives. All of us here have been invited and elected by Croatian citizens to decide, let's say, so conditional on their fates, and in particular to restrict human rights. A fellow measure is not that we give an expert opinion, but that we give an opinion whether some rights should be taken away or not. If we all stand behind them it has a lot, a lot harder value and a lot stronger value than to stand only for HDZ. But if that's what you want, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21090	Time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Replica. You have a second warning. Dear Representative Željko Reiner replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21091	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Celic, it seems to me that, in fact, other than being a colleague of Hajdukovic... came, so one period he wasn't actually there was more or less one consensus about it. [[You don't understand.]] I think everyone who spoke thinks that measures should be taken, that measures are good, that measures are useful. And I expect that with the opportunity to vote when it is that everyone actually votes for this change of law, because I can't exactly believe that someone would question whether human health should be kept from the crown when everyone has declared that these measures are necessary, that these measures are good, that they are useful and only differ from the modality of obvious approaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21092	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21093	Thank you. Dear academics, the adjustment of risk management measures in different contexts and the modification of public health and social measures is something that the professional authorities of all Member States of the European Union are considering. I'll only mention one example. So during the first closure in the Federal Republic of Germany one of the most recognized German epidemiologists said – let's lower the reproduction number to be less than 0.2. The Robert Cox Institute rebelled and said it wasn't the only variable. So these are the discussions to be discussed. My colleague Hajdukovic didn't hear me. I said the constitutional category should be discussed. So if it's about redundancies of human rights, we can discuss whether it's Article 16 or Article 17. We think it's Article 16 because there's a reference to public health.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21094	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21095	Dear colleague, you said the scientific council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not show any political colour unlike the national headquarters, and that one member of the HDZ and one member of the SDP were there. Well, now I understand why you don't listen to them, or why you don't listen to most scientific advice, but you listen to the minority. And I hope that it will become very soon public and these records, so let's see what actually happened in these tips, who stood up for what and how much influence some decisions of headquarters and government had. And I'm asking you one question now. Do you think that breaking into citizens' apartments means the vulnerability of home, monitoring their mobile movements today-to-morrow, declaring a curfew, banning some other types of movement, incurring human rights, and respecting the Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21096	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21097	Dear fellow Glasovac, as I recall at the last current hour, you asked the prime minister about the rapid antigen tests in the Republic of Slovakia. Now we already have a certain time-out whether we can learn some lessons, although Slovakia was the only EU country to apply it that way. We can probably, they've seen what the figure is, but something concrete in terms of changing epidemiological measures has not been done. You mentioned a very large model of Sweden, which died during the first closure of 2,700 elderly people in nursing homes, and some have also suggested that this should be applied. Today there's a story about Sweden that's stalled. As far as getting into the right to a home, if it's about disturbing public order and peace, then there are those institutions that need to do it, and I think that the last instance is of incurring human rights, and there's a lot to be taken into account. And there's supposed to be surveillance mechanisms. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21098	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21099	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here I am again about this incursion to the home and to this extent that is limited in private apartments and homes to the gathering of up to 10 people. Here other countries are mentioned as an outstanding example here just before and Germany that also has this measure. I don't know if the Germans are psychic, so they know what's going on, they probably also have some information about not only the gathering, it's deliberately perverted, of course it's not a problem if parents, grandchildren, grandparents are at some kind of family lunch, but some gatherings that are with the spread of the disease, the spread of the epidemic and the violation of the public order, and that's how citizens react, not only in this case, but also otherwise. In other countries, it is a measure to prevent the spread of the disease, and when we introduce such measures, it is the ratting of neighbors. And you've been doing this on purpose all along to turn the public against those which bring these measures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The measures are not aimed at ratting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21100	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21101	Respected MP Murganic, it was claimed to be behind on the measures, and then in different ways it tries to collapse or at least throw trust in the national headquarters. First measures, the first set of measures was adopted this summer and applied to the entertainment industry. A second set a month ago, it slowed down the growth, but it wasn't enough. Now the third set has been brought in. We could hear from this side of panic, dramaturgy, verse. For me, it's not a verse, I wish these restrictive measures hadn't occurred until December 21st, but we couldn't avoid them unfortunately. And also if we talk about the introduction of certain measures, the personal responsibility among the vast majority of Croatian citizens and citizens is present, but those small groups of people who degrade, who say that the crown does not exist, so they organised a festival of freedom, I was surprised that some MPs and MPs there were, are those against whom these measures should be applied, and I believe that we all agree here no matter what political option we belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21102	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21103	A fellow cellic, if there was a good intention from opposition MPs, would then not draw statements from the headquarters from the context. And they'd look at it within a time when something was said. Because the World Health Organization is that when there is no local transmission, and in the first part there was no local transmission that masks were not effective. There was no evidence they were using. In the second part of the epidemic where we have a huge local transmission mask are mandatory so say relevant professional institutions dealing with this problem not only global health care but also the European Centre for Disease Control. So this is one of those constantly repeating things that opposition deputies want to make it true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21104	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21105	Well, I agree, there was talk of it and an attempt at ridicule that we won the crown. We beat the crown in the first wave, now the second wave has come. It's just like when you play season and then you're in first place and next year's new football season again, and then somebody's gonna be selected again. We're going to win and this second wave, it's much harder, it's much more demanding, and when we talk about certain measures, it means every measure should be questioned, it can be questioned, but I would still leave it to the evaluation of these epidemiological measures to the expert bodies who are going to debate it very much. Croatia is not an island. Let's look at what's going on at EU level about what the European Council is saying. And I'm saying to me, maybe I'm wrong about the Croatian Parliament where people's rights and human rights should be debated, such as the right to a home or a certain takeaway of freedoms that are not from any whim but from the need.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21106	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21107	... MP in the 4th month... [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21108	Please, why'd you stop? I don't know, it's no big deal. Just go ahead and go with your Honorable counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21109	Thank you. Here, I'd be back at the 4th month, so Mr. Berosh was still in headquarters then we knew who was infected, who was the contact, who was in touch, and why, because we had confidence. Then you come up with a group of people, defetists who deny that there is a coronary virus, which deny that any measure results in the prevention of disease in the protection of people who are at risk. And now that we're passing a law that's supposed to prevent these gatherings, then it's said to be a charge of the state budget, or that it's a threat to human freedoms, which absolutely has nothing to do with the truth. And on the other hand, we have doctors screaming out of pain to help them because they can't take more in hospitals than the system is loaded. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21110	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic. Thank you. Dear Representative Celic, here's your answer. Please stick to time unless you want to stay here after midnight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21111	Dear Representative Simicevic, we had at the very beginning the idealization of members of the national headquarters, so I'm not going to talk about it now. Some people have lost confidence in the first wave. One of the fundamental emotions in stress was fear and that was one of the reasons why people were very consistent with epidemiological measures other than lockdown as such. Now that time is running, there's apathy, there's fatigue, there's a certain drop in our mental level. But we also have the fact that there's a news flash where certain people trust the fake news. It can also, in some ways, undermine trust in the headquarters and in all institutions. I think that we as responsible persons should order except for the personal responsibility message, trust in this government, and together we can win.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21112	And the last replica of respected MPs Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21113	I'm afraid you misunderstood me. I didn't insist on some other epidemiologists. My proposal was that one scientific advice should include some other professions that could help us, both yours and not just because of individual cases. We'll see how out of all the fears that we'll all be together, not to tell our kids especially when this goes away. What concerns me, and I want you to look at it a month ago, the Croatian political society had an interesting conference called "Is there systemivity in the Croatian coronary management system of the crisis", and it is exactly what counterpart Simičević was talking about that happened from the first trust and how trust was lost. Trust is not only lost by your fear, but when there are differences in measures and when measures change from day to day. Trust was lost by a procession on Hvar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21114	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21115	Dear Representative Boric, I will not comment on this last part because it would take a lot of time. I agree that sociologists and psychologists should be included in the expert group of the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters. There's a psychologist, there's a psychiatrist. Croatian psychiatric society has been engaged and recognised by the Ministry of Health since the very beginning. I will tell you that 3 days after the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, the first telepsychiatry centre was established at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, where 10 people work. From the beginning, we have followed the World Health Organization's guidelines for managing psychological and psychosocial gains. It is immediately translated into Croatian for special groups, for children, for parents, for healthcare professionals, for elderly people where recommendations have been made. We shouldn't have discovered any hot water. We took that and I'm trying as a psychiatrist to talk as much about mental health as possible, and that's where I'm asking for your help.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21116	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Maja Grbe-Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21117	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Minister of Health, Secretary of State Dulebic, Secretary of State Salapic and State Secretary Katic. We've all been together a long time, and thank you for spending your time like this. As regards the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Population against Contagious Diseases, it should certainly be said that the Republic of Croatia started very early with the implementation of epidemiological measures to combat the spread of Covid-19 disease in cooperation and co-ordination with the World Health Organization, with the European Centre for Disease Control. Already on 11 March, the health minister made a decision to declare the Covid-19 disease epidemic and was preparing for a major health care system for a possible response if the epidemic is escalated. But not only was the health system being prepared, but co-ordination was with all the services of the first response to the epidemic with the Ministry of the Interior, with the State Inspectorate and a number of other institutions that were working with at that time. An intense response to the first wave of epidemics began in February, and it was not unexpected for the Republic of Croatia to be the best in the European Union, allowing the tourist season and filling the state budget, which is not small things that many other countries have not achieved and wanted. During that period, the government and the health minister had a clear strategy to respond to the first wave and further possible scenarios in the autumn, which was clearly communicated with our citizens. There was a warning that there would be another wave, and some were skeptical, that there were possibilities of a large number of people being infected and an increase in the number of people if we did not follow measures then, and some have disputed it. Now there are often black forecasts in the public, the health system has been fluctuating already. That's what they said a month ago. It's not and it won't because the health system predicted all the scenarios that could happen. Now we're in scenario B, and I personally know that you have a scenario prepared in case you need to. The application of measures and the implementation of epidemiological measures depends whether we come to scenario C or not. And that is why I support the adoption of these measures prescribed by this bill. And now, in the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, there are criminal provisions in the chapters of Article 75. 6 to 9 for legal and physical persons. So it is already foreseen that you voted in this assembly in the last term to cost 8 to 15 thousand if someone does not adhere to self-insulation or quarantine. So I don't know what the problem is with these changes now when it comes to that small number of people who, and legal persons who don't want to participate in the efforts of all of us, all of us here and all of our citizens to further protect the lives of our fellow citizens. We should all respect these amendments together because we best say thank you to all those who are on the first line of defense, to all health workers, to all police officers, to all others, but also to our citizens who all this time adhere to the decision of headquarters. And academic discussions leave the expert public to those who know and work according to the medical rules based on evidence, who have completed a study of medicine or natural sciences. A college of six years, then a five-year specialization. Only the waist can discuss these matters properly no matter what political option it has worked in. So I ask you to return that trust you say you lost, you are denied public opinion because the polls that have been carried out say that people still believe the headquarters, and even in last night's late-night show, it was clear that the citizens who commented were clearly commenting that they wanted to introduce these measures, there were no citizens who said it was not being introduced. We should all work together to restore trust in the work of the government that has taken responsibility for all this and in the work of the Civil Protection Staff because there are professional people in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21118	Thank you very much, and for your exposure, we have a series of replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21119	Thank you very much. I'll let you know what you said at the beginning and why people don't trust you and your policies when you were on the main media sending messages to the people here.../The speaker included a recording of the tone record: "We who don't have any symptoms really There's no need to buy masks and walk around town with them, walk with them to work because that virus won't cross over, so the mask won't protect us from entering the virus. [[Thank you, I know what I said.]] So there's no use, and this one's completely unnecessary? It's completely unnecessary." Here I asked you what was wrong with you then? I'm aware you didn't have the information, but you've confused the people as much as you've been contradictory, and I know you've ended up in the assembly now, and so be it, the people have chosen. Why did you do this to Croatian citizens, to confuse them like this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21120	Dear representative of the coat of honor, Mr. Grba Bujević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21121	I'm glad you asked this question and thank you for it. So, the World Health Organization, you pulled it out of the April or early May period, and then the World Health Organization said clearly, and the profession is behind it, that when there is no local transmission country, it means transfer to another man, but there is control of all contacts possible and it is known exactly who it transfers from and gets, how the way it gets then it actually doesn't make sense to take a walk and wear masks to this. And when there is a local transmission as there is now or since this second start of this second wave, then all relevant institutions have made clear and made it clear that the masks must then be worn in order to prevent local transmission. I'm glad you asked that question, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21122	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21123	Thank you very much. The honourable MPs here are now once again repeating this from, your statement with a mask, I would now ask you once again to repeat the polls concerning the citizens' trust in the headquarters because I can't understand why the whole time the mantra exists that citizens don't trust headquarters as if we're not in touch with the citizens. From everyday experience with the people we are in contact with, we see that they have confidence and that the vast majority of our citizens of all the prescribed measures adhere. It is even thought that there should be even more stringent measures because they are aware of the dangers, but one large part of our opposition MPs insists and endures their mistrusts which are also invented for political reasons on citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21124	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21125	Thank you, colleague Murganic, for saying the right thing. Polls say one thing, people say the same thing, and that means the people still trust this headquarters. I don't know why you wouldn't believe it. Everything is prepared, everything is ready for answer, clear instructions and guidelines are given, clear professions are given, and clear citizens are given, and therefore this law should be supported as soon as possible and should be passed. All those who think they know about the management of this crisis have always had a place to say that. We are indeed in the first answer in which I participated, in the second I am no longer, really did our best to protect every possible human life, and that is certainly the intensity of the continued headquarters, government and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21126	Dear Representative Busic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21127	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, we here tonight assure each other who is more serious, and who took this situation less seriously, which unfortunately the whole world has found, found the whole world and found itself unprepared. Now, of course, everyone has a great ex-post mind, and since we're already remembering and reminding of what someone said and said and how and how and in what way and at what time allow me dearly respected colleagues from the opposition benches can we remember what some of our esteemed colleagues were doing when they refused to wear masks and who were at the head of the column when protesting against the measures of our national headquarters?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21128	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21129	Thank you, colleague Busic, for reminding us all of these events together. This, therefore, is very important to stress that some of our MPs in the opposition ranks have been strongly opposed to masks, or have made all the spectacles about it, and the other has been terribly difficult for all health care workers to see that one parliamentary representative backs a protest against masks and measures of headquarters. Because these health workers and unhealthy first - line workers are defenses, they look at patients, they look at people who unfortunately end badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21130	Don't throw your friend Bulj away all the time. Let's calm down at last, don't throw it away all the time. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21131	So the people who work on the first line of defense for them were very hard to look at, given that they fight for every human life, and that kind of thing should not be afforded by parliamentary advocates who respect and love this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21132	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Grba Bujević, we have heard too much thanks today and I join these health care professionals. They are indeed the most burdensome at the moment, but I think we should also thank the employees of social care institutions who care about people of older age, persons with disabilities. Tomorrow we will mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities brought by the UN General Assembly in 1992. Persons with disabilities are particularly vulnerabilities at this time of the Covid epidemic and here from this place please all healthcare professionals when Covid comes positive persons with disabilities to pay attention to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21134	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21135	Thank you, colleague Celic, for remembering a group of people who work in welfare institutions who have really put up with a great burden in this pandemic. It's very difficult for them all. People make extreme efforts, and we often forget to remember them in our discussions and in our conversations. So thank you so much on behalf of all social care workers for remembering them. I agree with you that others have suffered the same burden as our citizens have. It's not easy for anyone today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21136	Your Honor, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the first part of your debate, you were talking about A, B, C scenarios, possibilities and plans, and when you listen to the opposition, then it turns out that you're a political act, that you're involved in partying there. Are you at that headquarters talking about party life or is there a professional conversation?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21138	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21139	Dear fellow Sanader, things are very simple to explain. So, the profession always says its own, the expert group of the Ministry of Health where 25 people are involved regardless of the political options and whatever the professions are, so they are not only epidemiologists, but also has a psychiatrist and psychologist, has a representative of the Croatian medical chamber, has a number of other institutions that we need for these decisions, then the decision is agreed, then it is presented by the staff, done by the health minister. And the time I spent in that headquarters with great respect I have to say that the epidemiological measures were all those that were agreed on by the expert group respected and they were actually being brought. Now I see, I'm no longer there, do you know that my function is incompatible with it anymore, but what I see today is working and I know in what way it is... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21140	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Grba Bujević, it is interesting that in your debate today you invite all of us to help restore trust in the headquarters and trust in the government in everything that implements the measures, and you know why, did you personally wonder why this trust was lost by the Croatian people. Because you're inconsistencies, because you're not consistent. First of all, here is your example of not being consistent. You're not consistent because at the 4th month you called out not to wear masks, that's what people here have witnessed, let's let it go, you say there was no local transmission and that's why you shouldn't wear masks. In the 6th month, at the end of the 6th month, you continued with the same story and yet you said that your personal thinking that people should not be punished as they do in other countries, and today you advocate penalties, high penalties. Why? Because the election's over and Grandma's gone with the cookies, and now we're gonna go after the little man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21142	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Grba Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21143	My colleague, when someone wants to hear something then hears it, and when someone thinks purely politically and looks for their place in your club, then this one I wouldn't have more to add than that you're completely wrong. I've already explained everything about the masks. You don't want to hear it, I didn't expect you to hear it, it's your right, but I can assure you that as a 30-year-old doctor and three-year-old interns I stand behind some of my colleagues who are epidemiologists and professions who say that something should and should not be done. Although the profession suggested that we support this law or proposed it, then I have no doubt at all whether it should or should not be listened to. When there is an anesthesiological theme, you would have something about intensive centres or emergency medicine that I would be very happy to come into any discussion with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21144	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21145	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, so you were a member of the headquarters and me as a human we really understand that you couldn't even know.../incomprehensible/ so here in the context of these statements about masks that seemed to me even told me in February at RTL the statement of headquarters when you compared them from that time on, you will see that you obviously had one form of a broken phone inside the headquarters where everyone said things, often contradictoryly. But if I believed you that your statement about masks at that moment was made in that context, I would remind you of another thing. You were terrified of politicians who did not keep their distance so that very shortly after that statement you would be very close to the Prime Minister, Capak and the Infectious Diseases Clinic. So, as you're interpreting it, do you think that all of you at headquarters were actually no example in the measures you've been taking and in fact in one form, unwittingly or consciously, were you more equal than the other citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21146	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21147	Comrade Kujundzic, this is what I'm going to go back to what I just told my colleague. If everyone reads it to him, everyone watches the portals that suit him. I'm not sure that you've correctly interpreted everything you've just said, but I've always stood up for what the waist says, and I've always looked to actually convey that thought and everyone else. I certainly did it in that intention because the other day I was visiting a show that I don't believe you saw her actually where the citizens in direct contact said that they really believed what I was saying there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21148	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21149	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, Grba Bujevic, I will give you one question as an expert and I will not return to what anyone has said, my question is exclusively about today. I mean, I'm an architect and I'm letting some things I don't understand, so I'm wondering if there's a few kinds of self-insulation. Namely, distinguished counterpart Mato Frankovic, HDZ parliamentary representative and mayor of Dubrovnik was reported together this morning as I was in self-insulation along with a dozen other parliamentary deputies. Since I'm home working on the TV in the central diary, the mayor of Dubrovnik, today, has not been recorded before, made a statement about what happened today. That statement was made by a journalist, of course, without a mask so that he could be heard better in front of the mayor's office. So I wonder if there are several types of self-insulation, one where the esteemed representative Frankovic is, and the other where I am? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21150	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Grba Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21151	My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, so you know I'm not an epidemiologist by profession, but I'm sure the epidemiologist gave that opinion to whoever he gave it to. So I'm sure that, I don't know about this example of what happened But it's epidemiologists who control self-insulation, not me here whatever you say. [[Intruder: You can, you can talk in the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21152	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21153	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we are facing the long-awaited Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, we have been discussing here for almost 5 hours and I am back to the first sentence, long awaited because the situation in which we are in today has been the result of the government's inaction for several months. Namely, it has been nine months since we recorded the first infected person in the Republic of Croatia, almost seven months since you ministers, and on the trail of the World Health Organization declared an epidemic after the Covida-19 pandemic. It has also been 6 months since the last amendments to this law, which has been adopted by 118 votes in good faith in this Croatian Parliament. And I'm not saying that by accident, in good faith with 118 votes for. It's a lot more than 2/3 of the majority and that good faith could have been repeated this Friday, I'm sure it would have been of interest on all sides, only if there had been hearing from the ruling. But aside from those many months, it's been enough months, and I'd say enough days since the HDZ election. Maybe actually the government wasn't even trying to bring in the strategic documents that we're warning that there was no fight against Covid, maybe she wasn't even trying to bring in a public protection strategy because actually Prime Minister Plenkovic declared victory over Covid in June this year. Now, we've heard several times today that it's actually a victory that this government took to the first wave, and we've heard today from the Minister for this speaker that we couldn't expect and what would happen in the fall and what would be in the second wave. We couldn't have expected the Covid epidemic to coincide with the flu, or epidemic. We couldn't expect colder days and that people would end up in closed spaces because who would expect winter to come. So all of this said to us by the ministers in some way surprised us, these were unexpected circumstances, we didn't have any data that would suggest increased trends. And then what do we have today? Today, December 2nd, we have a government that is reluctant to compensate for the punishment of citizens and the claim that citizens are guilty of the government's inefficient measures not giving results. This law introduces high fines for breach of measures. But can these high sentences stop the outbreak of the infected? We will all agree together that there is an irresponsible behavior of individuals and that, to testify to that, we are wondering what control will look like, whether these behaviors will be controlled, what will happen to the inspectors and whether these measures are just enough that are not even clearly explained. I repeat, citizens, citizens who have respected all these measures to a greater extent so far, are being punished. They had proper respect for these safeguard measures. But the question is, were these measures sufficient? Were they adequate and were they timely? Were they clear? Were the citizens suggesting what their disrespect brought? Unfortunately, we didn't get such imputements from this government. We didn't get a review of the population's threat or action plan with thresholds as endangered as the other regulated countries have. At no time did we know what followed after a measure or after its absence. We didn't know that as citizens. But it's worrying that we didn't even know that as parliamentary representatives those who should have control over the government and this headquarters. We didn't know. We don't even know today, but we have a clue. The minister has promised us today that at the next session, the 5th session of this assembly, we will receive a report. You will tell us precisely what the measures so far have produced. Okay, live, and welcome to January 15th. Unfortunately, I repeat, today we don't know, and today we are facing a new law with new measures. We do not know what will be on December 21st until the period of validity of the existing measures. We don't know exactly what the goals are. You said our goal was to contain it, but you didn't say if we were going to close the catering facilities because our goal in the 21st day is to reduce the number of people infected by, for example, 30%. So if we don't make it to that 30%, are we going to introduce stricter measures? Or if we succeed in that 30% and shift, will we make these measures easier? So there are many, many unresolved questions left with this law. And unfortunately, there are a lot of questions that we haven't gotten an answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21154	Thank you. We have one replica, the respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21155	My colleague Posavec, you said a lot of things we didn't know, but we do know something. Now I'll tell you what we know. First of all, we know that there is a government council to fight against Covid, which is what experts do. That's not what I'm getting into, so that's what it's about. However, we also have a decision-making headquarters. Don't bring him any advice. And now I'm going to tell you who makes headquarters, which means what's the ministry's decision, who are members of headquarters. The representative of the HDZ Home Affairs Ministry, HDZ Defence, HDZ Finance, HDZ Health, HDZ Agriculture, HDZ Environment Protection, HDZ Construction, HDZ Economy, Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy HDZ, HDZ Foreign and European Affairs, HDZ Tourism, HDZ Culture, HDZ Culture, Science and Education, Croatian Fire Department HDZ, Hydrometeorological Institute I'm not sure, Seismological Services I'm not sure, Croatian HDZ Waters, Croatian Red Cross I'm not sure, Croatian Mountain Rescue Services I'm not sure and Croatian Institute for Public Health HDZ and then you're wondering why I don't trust you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21156	My colleague Hajdukovic, you're all right. Excuse me, Vice President. [[/Intruder Reiner: Can I give you my word or are we all gonna talk like that? Here you go, colleagues.)]] You've noticed your colleague Hajdukovic well. We have two bodies. One thing's political, one thing's professional. In doing so, the political least respects the opinion of the profession. And the least respected opinion of the profession has shown on the data that I have already presented today, that is, on October 15th, when the scientific advice has just proposed some measures. He proposed a European experience to introduce a national traffic light for Covid. The traffic light should have defined the severity of the epidemic in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, declared the green, yellow, orange and red zone. In addition, it was necessary to follow the list of measures that would be activated at any time in order to make more sense from red to lower orange, green to contain the epidemic. What happened? Since then, it's been 50 days, 50 days without measures. The measures were late for 40 days, and today it was said in this pay phone. What can we expect from a policy that doesn't listen to the profession?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21157	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're gonna get a little windy again, and we're gonna meet up here at 10:30 again. We'll be longer by midnight, no worries. It's 10:00 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 22:29 A.M.]] And then I'd like to ask the esteemed representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, to come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21159	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected no-one's proposings. My colleagues and colleagues. We have been warning for months that politics has been hidden behind the national civil protection headquarters and that the headquarters is a parathyroid that decides on the order of politics. From the first moments of the outbreak of the pandemic from the headquarters procedures, it has been screaming unconsistency, screaming unseriousness, irresponsibility, transferring guilt to the citizens, shaking hands on warnings and the exact figures of prominent Croatian scientists, the cover-up of the raves in the health system, ignoring the appeal and demands of the medical profession, because the HDZ government as Plenkovic announced the congenital victory over the virus in May. And in the crisis, leaders are known, and our leader led Croatia through the national headquarters at the time of the crisis. When the infected were between 50 and 100 a day at the level of the entire Croatia ordered a lockdown for all, well for all, the procession on Hvar was held, no thought should be given to measures. When elections were to be held, the coronary virus was claimed to have been defeated, measures should not be considered. When measures were to be followed by all citizens, Minister Beros took a picture in nearby positions during the summer, and the prime minister was hanging out at tournaments because who cares about the measures. When a new government was to be confirmed, the rules of self-insulation were not applicable in the case of the Hrebac because they were not applicable to all the same measures. When the publication of the number of newly infected started to grow rapidly, parliamentary representatives were sent on a two-week vacation and what the Assembly had to do with the measures. When the doctors protested and asked to be heard, the headquarters chose political points between the political points and the lives of our fellow citizens because doctors knew about the epidemiological measures. And let us not remember all unreasonable decisions and unreasonable actions, it is impossible to remember them all, but they are written in every citizen, every one who has lost his job, who spent days worrying about whether his child will heal the one who lost his neighbor, the one who has lost confidence in those who are obliged to provide him with health and life. And after all, the government thinks it was called upon by the move of a feather to limit fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution because citizens are irresponsible. No member of the government is irresponsible because the government has done everything perfectly, the citizens are irresponsible. This is colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens who may still be looking at us through small screens a subtle way for the government of the Republic of Croatia to limit freedom and fundamental constitutional rights of citizens that have failed by planting a ridiculous mobile tracking application that you citizens and citizens have paid in a way. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, with 18 people headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, argues that for the escalation of the number of infected health systems that are falling apart from the crown of the virus, the closure of business and the endangerment of the existence of thousands of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and because of your guilt, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Prime Minister Plenkovic, wants to follow you, enter your apartments, check out who you're hanging out with, and it wants to spend a quick time without asking anyone or us who represents you. A dangerous precedent by the ruling majority wants to bypass the article. 17. The Constitution and force to impose amendments to the laws that will allow repression. Democracy implies responsible behavior for all, but cannot and must not be limited by the freedom of citizens in the free country because of their own failures. You'd better ask yourself, gentlemen of the government and the headquarters, is the behavior of irresponsible individuals among us caused by your withdrawal measures that you didn't even adhere to when you were supposed to? Why and with what right to the whole society do you put a stigma of irresponsibility and point your finger at all citizens when most of them respect all the measures you bring because they fear the consequences of this dangerous disease? And in order to avoid confusion, masks need to be worn, distances should be respected, contacts should be minimised but the main emphasis is not citizens who are irresponsible, so for this same mask, an expert member of the national civil protection headquarters, a proud HDZ member, today the parliamentary representative claimed that the mask is not effective in defence of the infection. I wonder how Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic will now vote under this law? Citizens must not be hostages to your sloppy crisis management. We're not going to let everyone feel guilty because you weren't able to do the job that the citizens chose you for. In the fifth month, the prime minister beat the crown, five days ago the same prime minister in an alibi, says success in fighting the crown virus is in the hands of all of us. Where did that campaign leader go?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21160	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Matko Kuzmanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21161	Here is a nice greeting from the chairman and all those present who are still following us at this time both in the assembly room and across small screens. In fact, at one point in my life, I had to put on fire protection. And you know what I learned here? The first sentence that says "Any fire can be extinguished with a glass of water, but if it reacts in time." Do you know why we are here today discussing it? About this law? Because it didn't respond in time and time. The second wave to wait unprepared, as if we weren't expecting. It could have happened to us in the spring, but today if we had this number of deaths and had this number of newly infected people, that's one kind of irresponsibility. And now what are we doing with this law? Now they'd transfer my responsibility to the citizens. They're the ones who are to blame for going on such a large number of local transmissions. Two months ago, the entire professional public led by Mr. Djikic warned and described in detail what would happen and what fate would happen in about a month to two days. And what did the prime minister do about it? Bahato ignored. The Coronal situation has some figures that I'm sure the Prime Minister knows, but the public doesn't know yet. They are publicly available and speak as follows, and this is the probability of dying in the event of hospitalisation in 275 hospitals in the world is 19% on the 24.11.2020 date, the probability of dying in the case of hospitalisation in New York in the 3rd and 4th months when there was an epidemic at the peak is 26%. And do you know what today is or seven days ago at KBC Dubrava? 31%. The probability of dying in intensive care was 17.11. 71%, it's almost 90% today, so 9 out of 10 patients won't get out of intensive care. For example, at 275 hospitals in the world that's 30% so three, we're 9 out of 10. In Lombardi, at the 3rd and 4th months, the same probability was 53%. What does that mean? Not that we're unprepared, but we've been ignoring the public and the profession all this time and we've been in this situation. In addition to being tested significantly less and having questionable data, we have now decided to in some way endanger the survival of those people who have now had to close their catering facilities because of this new situation, but we have left the malls open. Do you know what's gonna happen? Local transmission won't go down. With this, all we're going to do is transfer responsibility from headquarters and from the government to citizens. And finally, I understand that the prime minister has panicked because unfortunately we are testing significantly less and we don't know all the details about it, what we know is that the numbers of the newly infected and the dead are getting bigger and bigger, the prime minister is aware that this may be the saddest Christmas that happens in Croatia, and credit for that will be on the back of the people. Everything the SDP asked for, he asked us to apply the article. 17. and, in some ways, to make a decision together on how to go forward and help our advice as much as we can, but not what I've heard from my colleagues here, HDZ continues to insist on that they must lead the main word, they must be, so when you beat the crown in the 4th month here now, I'm also sorry to tell you, you lost this battle because if you'd imposed the measures in time, these measures wouldn't be so radical and today it wouldn't be over on today 1916 dead. If you were in time, would anyone else be alive today? If you had taken measures in time, what would have happened? Now that it's too late, you're going to put it all on the back of the citizens, and unfortunately, it's tragic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21162	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21163	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the second time since the outbreak of covid-19 disease was declared in Croatia, we are discussing amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. This law, like the previous one, is an expression of the uncertain circumstances in which we live, and these are the laws of the Government and the ruling majority in the Assembly that introduces absolute legal uncertainty, deepens uncertainty and drills and devours the legal order and rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. As so many times as our government, Minister Beros comes to HS to ask us MPs to qualify for her actions which are obviously not certain whether they should have taken them at all and whether the measures that were taken were even based on the Constitution and the laws because they are certain that they have legal basis and legal background, we would not be discussing this law at all today. But as the old lawyers would say, that the coat of arms is born time does not correct. This legal sentiment is known to any better student of the first year of law school, but it seems the lawyers in the government were not much of a better student. This practice of government and headquarters has become commonplace. First you respected ministers introduced this mild lockdown, and then you negotiate with entrepreneurs on measures while other countries and we have repeatedly in the debate here warned, they have precise predictive models for introducing stricter and facilitating measures that are in place. Our Head of the Institute of Public Health openly acknowledges that measures are being decided from day to day with evening drinks in good company. It's the law that comes from our special ambience of disorder and verse. And what is this law that is before us? It is a law in which there are no analytical grounds for the debate to justify the proposed measures, which was also written over the weekend with such a law by the Government coming to the Parliament and asking MPs to retroactively, so backwardly give a legal basis for everything the government and headquarters have taken since 11 March here. In other words, we are asked to close our eyes and shut our mouths because some have said that this whole debate is, for example, a colleague of Pupovac. and replicas that were completely unnecessary, to give Bianca support to the government and headquarters who do not respond to anyone and who ignore proposals for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. To better understand these laws that come into the assembly beyond all the rules and customs of regular procedure, but we understand this is an extraordinary situation, in which every provision enters into fundamental human rights, these laws are also a division between those who protect the rule of law even in these crises and those who think that everything is permitted in the crisis. After all, when this law is voted on, this traffic light above us will also show how many of those who want to be part of the majority or already belong to it in fact. In conclusion, I'd still like to prevent some unsuspecting replicas, but I don't think there's going to be any HDZ colleagues who've probably fired everything, I'd like to say that you're probably thinking about it right now, and that's actually the only argument you could use to say that we won the elections, and that's what we've had the opportunity to hear here, we've been trusted by the citizens. The truth is, the citizens trusted this government because it put fear into their bones and promised them safety. I'm sure some of them are wondering where the promised safety is. The truth is, the citizens gave you trust because you told them you beat the virus. That shameful lie was spoken with such ease, and it was built on entire election campaigns. I have no doubt that you will once again declare victory over the virus is only a question of how many victims. And in the end, it's true that the citizens have given you confidence, but not that you're playing with laws and that you're playing with the Constitution and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21164	We have one replica, respected representative Kujundzic. Are we in touch with him? Here it is, we see it but we can't hear it, let it turn on [[Intruder: Ton Ante, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21165	Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21166	Now yes, now yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21167	Okay, thank you, Chairman. And here, in this late hour, I can essentially think of how convincingly my colleagues can sound and how much ultimately they believe the person after whose mandate a particular ministry was put out because of the brilliant measures or the one who declared the IGP not so long ago as to declare it a population, and now it is happily defending it and deems it necessary. How long at the end of the day will I wonder convincingly sound like an attempt at any excuse for any illogical logic? And finally, until when will this country rule of inconsistency and selective amnesia be ruled, and when will someone finally get their cheeks worked, and they will be filled with ashes and apologize to this people? Citizens, therefore, are not sheep that need to be pushed into a certain cake and flogged with a rod and taught them what they need, which we all really need to be clear about. So, first of all, to be responsible for this, we all agree, but after that, the starting point of any determination of any measure has been in place for months since this epidemic hit us. It was supposed to be the starting point... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21168	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21169	Dear colleague Kujundzic, I am not a man who will be a general after the battle and now give a lecture here to Minister Beros and say that everything was bad that the headquarters did. I'm also aware that all the countries were wrong, everyone was wrong, but when they were wrong, then it was a mistake to admit we were wrong, we didn't have enough information, it was a wrong decision. Here we have Mrs. Grba Bujevic who here says that she convinced people that masks were not necessary because there was no local transmission. How was there no local transmission? So what kind of story is that? Masks or shields or not protecting. We don't know where the infection is now in Croatia, but everyone has to wear masks, and you said it was completely unnecessary. And if you had said here today that I was wrong, I would have told you all the honors. That's how responsible politicians work I'm not asking you to be infallible. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I ask you to be responsible. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21170	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21171	Thank you very much. My people, if you look at this, you see how many in the end those who were answers and who you believed told you at the beginning, give up the naked streets, give up the naked, clapping, declaring them superheroes, eventually they lost their trust. The trust was lost I will once again play to my colleague Bujevic as a key person at the time, along with the minister here the present super-literate William who then said clean.../The speaker included a recording of the tone record: "We who do not have any symptoms really do not need to buy masks and walk with them around town, to walk with them to work because they will not cross the virus, so the mask will not protect us from entering the virus. So there's no use, and this one's completely unnecessary? It's completely unnecessary." Here we heard the complete needlessness of the mask just before you got here even for a pay phone you didn't need to disguise as a professional person who sent on national television not obscenity television. Ministers' trust is the most important, not sanctions, sanctions and penalties, they bring nothing good, bans do nothing good but sanctions. People had confidence in you, you know that well. Even the lower headquarters, the county headquarters dressed up as war uniforms of civil protection as if they were picking up the virus, even if it were visible, then they would go out daily, hold the press, ask for applause. The only one we have to thank is medical staff and health care and I'm sorry they didn't, the day before yesterday in the county supported by a number of measures I gave to Split-Dalmatia County to raise salaries. I'm sorry you didn't support the social categories, but now you've passed the DVB-T receiver, I've given 20 million kuna to our pensioners whose only window into the world is television. And you didn't support it. But when we talk about measures, the measures must have confidence, the ministers must trust you. They had it, literally, if you had told the people, if the people were watching this, let's give it up naked, they'd be giving up naked. What happened? You call to keep your distance, you use it in your campaign to invite young people to keep their distance, at the same time. Yeah, that's true. Prime Minister Plenkovic hugs physically with tennis player Djokovic, does not go into self-insulation, and the photographer who took the self-insulation to say that in the photos, the coronary virus came, perhaps, we had no knowledge at the time. My colleagues Bujevic may not have been enough at the time, but admit that you sent the wrong messages to people who listened and respected you. Every night was open about you. The pictures were drawn about you, the children sent you letters. How much trust was there? You've played your trust. Trust is the most important thing, there's nothing more important than trust, and people will listen to the recommendations. If I'm wearing a mask, I'm wearing a mask if I'm told, I don't have a problem with it no matter how hard it is for me to wear it. Well, for a time, you said you'd be tracking our phones, remember, endangering our freedoms. The app sort of leaves my cell phone here, they're gonna leave, and how do you know I'm here now, so I can go to the bar wherever I want. You put people's freedoms at risk, not just that. But you used it in political promotion in the worst way. And now you're boasting the people have given you confidence. Yes, he gave you confidence because you spoke for the safety that you would be safe. But citizens feel insecure. To know what happened at a nursing home in Split where you appoint those social institutions of people who lost political elections in Omis, so the mayor of Omis was placed in a nursing home, a home for the elderly and powerless in Split, and there was chaos, and it was as a result of the health care of the Split-Dalmatia County. And these people are fighting in health care and health care and health care professionals, from ambulances to drivers to people who deal exclusively with Covid problems. And that's true, trust, not punishment, not bans. The bans don't do any good. People follow the measures, and those who led you wrong are responsible for this situation and that's the message. Let's stick to the measure, but what you've done is chaos to win the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21172	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21173	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Bulj, I am not a health profession, and I respect the profession truly and perhaps it would be, we heard there was no local transmission now, so they didn't need masks. Maybe you should say it wasn't protective equipment, so we said it because it wasn't there. Otherwise how to explain that when there is no local transmission one entire island, the island of Murter is put into quarantine, and local transmissions are missing, very strange and interesting at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21174	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21175	Thank you very much. Then the municipalities weren't meant to cross over, and many municipalities don't have gas stations, they don't have shops, they don't have the ability to communicate, so that's the problem, and then as there was no local transmission. It was, but they had to admit the mistake, we had no knowledge and we went to make the PR to win the election and a colleague became a parliamentary representative but she took advantage of the misery and infirmity of those people who listened to them, they rightly listened to them. Same thing with Vukovar, marking. Well, I went to Vukovar that's my decision, it's a political decision no professional decision. What's the expert decision? Politics has made a decision that in Vukovar, I went, but they are afraid as a profession decided, they are hiding under the profession, and basically all political work, absolutely to one detail of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, without the control of the assembly because you give us misinformation, you don't want to give reports of him you just want us to be your robots, and it won't work like that, there's still some time but it won't take long.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21176	The next is the replica of the respected representative Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21177	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, you and my family come from a proud Chetino knight's neighborhood, we all know and we are aware of the problems created by our headquarters and government decisions during this pandemic. The most affected were the parts that had already been decomposed demographically, economically, and certainly different. What do you expect from the future of these measures what will it do for our birthplace of the Cetina region?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21178	Dear Representative Bulj will now say what he will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21179	Thank you very much. As far as the Chetino area is concerned, a large number of people have been infected, I hope that all of you, that this will go well, unfortunately there are also dead, and these are the contradictory messages. The measures that are now being taken here are the only things that have closed down the catering facilities and banned the example of playing sports for children, and children go to school. What kind of decision is that? The second and third leagues can, the first and second leagues can, and the kids can go to school, and they can't play sports. That's contradictory. Large multinational companies and trade chains can work, mostly sides to milk money, and domestic markets can't sell or sell in our country cheeses that cheese in the markets run around it put a mask on it, put this, here order uncontrollable in large trade chains. Contradictivity is the worst and the loss of trust in those whom the people believed and who failed them with unreasonable decisions for the common man.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21180	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21181	Thank you, Chairman. So, my colleague Bulj, I'm holding in front of me, and I'm going to quote 20, and I think it's April 5, 2019. The HDZ Club in the assembly was called the Most for Politics, arguing that Croatia would not get anything except the need to show patriotism by declaring itself an exclusive economic belt, which has not already been declared a ZERP. So how and based on what do you believe in this form of inconsistency of one form of amnesia and selectivity? If we stick to the old one so everyone scratches where it it itches, then the greatest populists call others "populism." So based on what to go back to this topic, we can trust the headquarters that I repeat my logic in an illogical way again, and in fact, all the measures he has taken are more equal for politicians than citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21182	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21183	So I can't compare, my colleague, this is a serious topic, an epidemic that happens to the coronary virus, but I can't compare the statements of Branko Bačić from yesterday on an exclusive economic belt or today, or colleagues of our Bujević as he was a top expert who wasn't political, and a clean political body that gave statements that masks were not needed, it's nonsense, what are you going to wear masks, throw masks, don't buy masks, when there was a mask when the mask was 20 kuna, and the value is 10 lips or I don't really know. That's it, contradiction, contradiction of decisions. The former minister is laughing, but that's true. The minister then is the person who was key to Minister Beros who now went out to listen to the truth, I guess, when the people of Kujundzic told the people that they had told the people, I must tell the people here that the naked people would give up, because he was so terrified. And she said at the time that she wasn't a tribune mask, and today when I listen to her, I can't say that she's the same person, I prefer the old person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21184	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21185	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, this is a small number that is the most persistent, most durable, we have heard many things today, much has been said from the shooting of coalition partners to the interpretation of the Constitution, as I have already told you to stick to my profession, I am not a health profession I am not going to believe in health care professionals and this way I congratulate everyone and thank them for the dedicated work they have shown during this epidemic, but not only during the epidemic but also because our health system can really rely on very high-quality healthcare professionals. We heard from the minister at the beginning of the numbers we listen to in the news every day, multiple times, but I would point out that those aren't numbers, they're people. And these people have a name and a name, they're lives, they're fates, and they're people that we suddenly want to punish. From that situation in the spring when they clapped on the balconies, we came to the windows that the citizens were guilty, that's what the Prime Minister said, the citizens were guilty, all of a sudden they're guilty, so now we're gonna give them some kind of dragon penalty because they're guilty. We heard how much these penalties are in other countries, we heard how much wages in these other countries are significantly higher than in Croatia. I'll look back on that, but first I have to say that here we are, in a very short period of time, changing this law by emergency procedure several times, and the question is whether we're going to change this law again soon, whether this law is going to serve its purpose now, and maybe it's because we haven't actually done an analysis of where we are. We're not at the beginning of the epidemic, but we're in the middle, we're at the end, where we are, we don't know. Of course, uncertainty is high but the question is what is next and at what level. A lot of colleagues have talked about it, I won't look back on it, but there are certain things that, with these dragon sentences that are really too high 400,000 pensioners, have a pension of less than 2,000 kuna, the penalty for the 500 kuna mask is 25% of their pension, it's a high penalty. We want to punish the midwives at the tram stops because they got a little mask under them, so their nose went up, so the sergeant came along and they're gonna punish her, I think that's where we're talking about there's gonna be some kind of warning. What kind of warning, who's gonna take care of these warnings, where's they gonna register? First, second, third warning? There's a lot that's unclear, and most of all what worries us all is the police's behaviour. Minister Bozinovic said police will not break into apartments and count people, but will sanction a breach of measures. How? If you won't enter the apartment as well as the house, how will you know how many people are inside, 10, 15, 20? I'm not going to go into these application applications, I leave it on everyone's mind, but the fact is that a lot of it with this law remains unclear, undefined and leaves room for a different interpretation which is not good. We testified in Osijek-Baranja County that they also raised drones in the spring, so the drones were watched by citizens of the city of Osijek and violated fundamental human rights. Who guarantees us that this will not happen and now that some local sheriff, some chief of staff will not interpret this law as it suits him? We didn't get guarantees, you didn't convince us that someone would control it and that the provisions of this law would not be misused, and that's crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21186	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry you didn't save your lines for me, but what you're going to do is how this one is. Therefore, we are talking about amending the Law on Supplement, amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which, although this debate today could not conclude, has a contentable 4 articles. It is one thing to say that we must properly wear a face mask, another to prohibit and restrict public events and gatherings in order to protect the public from infectious diseases and to prohibit and restrict private gatherings. Otherwise, we've done it all before. That, therefore, is all done to make an article one and from the very beginning. The second article says something about how the State Inspectorate can do it and then the third and most interesting article, which is punishment. As for the penalty for not wearing a mask so he's actually quite ungrably written, I really think you should reduce the penalty for the first offense and increase for the second offense, so it's 200 and 1,000 kuna, say, not 500, so if you get under your nose that someone can punish you with 500. And that would be all about this easier part of the law, and it probably wouldn't have caused a big debate unless in the political discussion, we reminded Mrs Bujević that she was just saying something like that, neither the HDZs were vaccinated from reminding us if we were to say something wrong and just say it because of the reciprocity. However, the key thing about this law is that for the first time, the fact that you have gathered more people in your home will be considered against the law and sanctioned. That's a little more serious. And it'll have to be determined by someone. I am absolutely sure that no punishment under this law will be imposed, according to this article of the law, and if it is said that it will not experience its power first because the judiciary is slow to do, then the pandemic will end and everyone will forget, I think, and secondly, because if it comes to the Constitutional Court it will be very interesting to see that someone at a private gathering has gathered 10 people unless it is determined by direct observation that can happen so that either the police enter the apartment based on a warrant or put a seat in front of the apartment and records who left the apartment that day, so we will have as in some films with another topic to come down through the window, to come down through the balcony to all the happiness dressed even after this one in Brussels, and we still don't know that yet. So why are we talking about Article 17. The Constitution? Why are we talking? Therefore, not all decisions taken by the headquarters or by the assembly may be made under Article 16. The Constitution. So there must be a limit when something in Article 16, which is a minor restriction on human rights due to health, becomes a greater or greater restriction on human rights because of a natural, major natural disaster. In my opinion, that would be, in the first part of the pandemic, the ban on leaving the place of residence in a system like it was built, so by municipalities, but let's say the county would already belong to Article 16. It's a nice legal thing now, and this debate is good. So, you've got to be awake so you don't get a lot of ideas from the local characters like this to wear a uniform and a minor act by a guard brigade commander from the Homeland War during the pandemic, and also if the opposition won't warn the government not to go too far, who in this country is going to do it, no one. So you take this as a well-intentioned criticism. So whether wearing a 500 kuna mask, 1000 kuna or 200 kuna mask is a political decision, not a professional one. It's a professional decision, don't, wear a mask. And another way of proving that someone has violated the provisions of the law on private gathering, I am very interested in how it will be carried out. Or get together 12 or 4 of us got over two months ago, they can't infect anyone, does that count for us getting together 8 plus 4 or just 12? Or, for example, meetings of Covid’s associations, those who have been cured, can’t infect themselves, they can be collected 30 there is no social harm due to it. Therefore, very carefully with what can be produced in everyday life in mockery and laws, as well as in normal, normal understanding of normal or new normal life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21188	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21189	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Bauk, I have another replica, and here I have saved it for you, your debate has been very good at the end of my debate, and today a well-known Croatian lawyer has said the following. If a serious threat to human life and health is to be removed, the police should not wait for a court order. Is this a case where the police can go into someone's home and count people or what the thermal cameras will use? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21190	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21191	Yeah, well, I've been keeping an eye out for you, so these HDZs don't tell us that, they started saying that we, you, MOST, don't know what they called them in the coalition, so I'm trying not to see that synchronicity, I'm trying to replace the traces of this. Otherwise, as far as distinguished Croatian lawyers are concerned, it is now a relative matter, lawyers are those representing their parties in court, and they are not obliged to establish the truth, but to assess whether the charge has enough evidence or not, and so is this. If 12 people got together and started shooting guns or guns, it would certainly justify entering the police regardless of this law. Therefore, the police may now enter someone's home if it is legal and constitutionally justified. Now, is that under this law, not for a violation? So, because if they were doing a serious crime then they wouldn't be talking about this law but about criminality. So this is a violation and the police are going to find it so little that it won't be too strict on my understanding that it's... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21192	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21193	Dear Vice President, ministers with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs, here we are as a country finally in something at the top, and the government doesn't want to be responsible. We're at the top by the number of incidences, by the mortality of Covid, but also by the snivelingness that marked the struggle with this epidemic, and it's all the virus, and now it looks like the citizens. Nothing that was declared half a year ago that the virus was gone, almost, won, so the speed elections, and then we didn't win, so now here's almost more Croats took that virus than Ireland. The virus we beat. We beat him so well we're here to discuss restricting civil liberties so we can beat him a little bit more. It is logical to break legal obligations there must be sanctions, but in time for warnings coming from all over the country and taking measures on time, there may not be a situation where we are panickingly making decisions when Arena begins to fill. I am an indicator of panic when writing these amendments and supplementing the law is the fact that the same fine of 500 kuna foreseen for all natural persons without having thought about not having all the natural persons financial opportunity or respecting it because I can't buy a new mask every day, and then I can't even afford to pay the fine. Tell me, what about families who have more than 10 members in the same household? What are you gentlemen going to do with the homeless? What about the kid whose mask fell on the floor while he was walking towards school, with a pensioner who can't even buy his bread every day, let alone afford to pay these fines? What about all the families who live on the edge of poverty and can't afford to give each and every child every day of school a new cover when you're already pushing the school live instead of that line teaching? Will you put them all in jail when they can't pay this fine? If you already impose on citizens new obligations that cost, before you start punishing them for not respecting these obligations, please make sure to provide these masks finely from the budget to all citizens. But let's get back to the core of the problem. Why is all this being done so panickingly and daftly because it's not that we didn't know what was waiting for us. It's not that we haven't been surrounded by examples from other countries, not that top scientists haven't warned us and predicted exactly these scenarios. But what they know is the end of our very headquarters. They're just world-renowned scientists, not HDZ members. Well, the government's advice itself, even though it was only 15.10. that he was offering at least some kind of strategy called the so-called strategy. traffic strategy, and the government has smoothed it out even though we needed any strategy. A strategy with clearly measurable methods and goals, because what we've had so far obviously doesn't work, this virus has shown us very well. And I agree that once the headquarters has played the huge trust it had at the beginning of this pandemic, it is now necessary to try to regulate compliance with the measures that should help control the epidemic. Clearly, sanctions are needed, but they are well thought out and adapted to all classes of society. What is absolutely not necessary is incurring civil freedoms and rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21194	The next debate will be a respected representative of Dark Taritash. Here you go. Can you hear us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21195	Thank you very much, I heard you, but it took me a while to get involved here, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I think I can begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21197	So here I welcome you and welcome all my colleagues and colleagues along with Minister Beroshe who we are in the late evening here, or you are there, and I am in another place. If anyone else thinks that there is a normal situation in Croatia, I am sure that through this debate we have proved and convinced that it is not. If there is anything to prove, then it is that we are almost there, so midnight in the Croatian Parliament we will discuss the introduction of a fine of 500 kuna for wearing a mask incorrectly. And I would like to talk about this bill with two aspects. One aspect is legislative, i.e. formally legal, and the other aspect is content. When we talk about this legislation, we have a constitution that protects human rights and freedoms, and it is one of the greatest values of our Constitution, and through several articles, it speaks of seeking special conditions when it happens that these freedoms are limited. So we have, say, Article 20. A constitution that clearly states that for human rights violations, each of us is responsible personally and cannot be justified by any multi-level warrant, and that is, what we want all the time to prove and try to prove, but ruling as if we speak two languages, as if we speak one language that we try to prove, while ruling in another language. Our citizens aren't potatoes, they didn't deserve to be treated like potatoes, so now we're putting them in one basket, then the other one, and the third one. I'm kind of every time I discuss trying to be kind of reasonable, and I'm trying to be and understand some situations. So, it's understandable that in the spring when we started talking to the crown, this great unknown, which is not only Covid-19 that happened to Croatia, the whole world happened and that we made really different decisions then, but what was in the denominator, and that was that people believed that decisions were right. I even understand that some decisions have been made wrong, but when you make the wrong decision it should be equally understandable that you say that decision then, look, we went wrong a little bit, but now we're going in another direction. All spring we've heard that we've got a fall ahead, that in the fall there's really going to be an even stronger virus, that there's going to be a second wave, to prepare for it. And we're getting ready and getting ready for kids who go to school, getting ready for people who work, everyone's getting ready. Who's not getting ready? Our Minister Beros and the health system are not being prepared. And then he sees miracles, he comes in the fall, and now in the fall he has to make some decisions, and then when he gets involved with some petty politics, then those decisions really cause big questions over our heads. So, first, when it comes to the mortality of people who were in the House of Elders and Retired in Split when it came to the question of Minister Berosa who was to blame, it was the virus. Well, of course, if it wasn't for the virus, it wouldn't have been like that. After that, different decisions were made, I won't mention that famous tennis match in Zadar that was worth it, one was worth one thing, the other was another. We're all sensitive when there are two standards. And those two standards are what was when it came to headquarters. Thus, one criterion was valid when Mr Plenkovic was to be awarded, or to confirm some of his decisions, and the other criterion was valid for all of us. And I will really continue to insist even though I haven't heard the answer from the distinguished representative Grba Bujevic, so self-insulation is 12 if I don't cheat on parliamentary representatives. This morning, we were all answering in this way that I'm answering. Among other things, a parliamentary representative appeared, I rarely mention a name and a last name, Mayor of Dubrovnik. By chance, when I took a look at the diary, I saw that he was making a statement about one of our TV shows outside his office this afternoon, no mask. So I'm really interested in it, and I'm going to insist on whether there are several kinds of self-insulation? And that's what I'm pointing at, and I'm going to point at it all the time. You can't have two systems of standards, you can't have a responsibility to the citizens, and you can't treat them like I already said potatoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21198	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21199	Thank you. I was a colleague of Mrak Taritas listening to your replica of Mrs Bujević and I didn't first realize what you were talking about at my colleague Frankovic's, but I'll see if I got it right now. So this morning, if I understood you correctly, I used the right to vote from a distance because it was in self-insulation, and in the afternoon it wasn't in self-insulation that could have two things. Either his self isolation expired at 12 o'clock today or he abused the Rules of Procedure, and it was not misused by him, but then abused by the President of the Croatian Parliament which is a slightly bigger scandal than the fact to whom it lasts and how much self-insulation, if I understood what you were saying, if I did not realize you ignore everything I said and you fellow vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21200	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21201	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, Bauk, you've got me very well. Mr. Frankovic was in self-insulation and voting this morning. On the list of people who are self-insulating for tomorrow he is the same in that same list, and today in the afternoon or evening he appeared in a journal on a topic that is not old, since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday, but a topic that is related to the city of Dubrovnik which is open today. So, this morning, he voted with me again, or he called for a vote to see if there was an emergency procedure that included something on the agenda, and I'm not being lazy, and he was really on the list because you have that mailing list, so on the list of parliamentary representatives who are in self-insulation. We got it for tomorrow because every day we get e-mails so we can get involved. And for tomorrow he's in self-insulation, so he can't be in the assembly, but he's got to answer, and tonight he checked into the diary. So, I think you all understood me very well what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21202	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21203	Dear Mr. Minister, Your Honor, we've already said everything, and here I am last in an individual debate, we've already said everything multiple times. What saddens us to say for months, that many of us and clubs and the Green-Left Block Club have submitted concrete proposals a month ago. What grieves is that opposition is constantly respected by criticism. Take a look at this opposition from the amendments we make to the budget, to the laws, so it's just as important to us as it is to you to the safety of our citizens. The safety of citizens must be what we call human security that at this point is the most important. Once again, I'm really curious why you don't want to share your responsibility with us? When you solemnly said that you had won the crown I can and understood you wanted credit for yourself the elections were coming, you could at what a nice folk would say to profit. Now we're in such a crisis that the shared responsibility goes to you. We offer to share with you the responsibility and try and come up with some measures for ourselves. Do not be angry with us for reminding you whether the masks were worth it or not, do not be angry with us if we ask why you are, for example. all predicted by 21st and not by 20th or 22nd. What thresholds have you made to know that the 21st time you let citizens into places that are now forbidden to have 25th chaos? How are you going to get back, everyone here has been repeating the word trust? So I suggest you really look at what scientists have told us about the resilience of any country. One of these new ones you always have this base word is that resilient, so resistance in the economy, so resistance here and there. So which society is resilient? What social system is resistant to external shocks? Do you know which one? The one who, when any kind of confusion happens, when there's a deniability like with us, some of us have refused whether it's a virus, when fears happen, today we're talking about who's the winner then to rebuild social cohesion. How is social cohesion achieved? How do you ensure trust? How do you manage the crisis? What kind of leadership do we have and what kind of communication is it? If you remember social cohesion was higher at the time of the first one at the new Croatian lockdown or first lock. Are you still wondering why social cohesion is no longer such a thing? So who took it down. I love and don't mind Mr. Minister saying that one of her fellow psychiatrists here has no co-workers, she said we all trusted Mom Alenka and Daddy Willy. Do you know what that syntagma means? We believed as the family trusts the father and mother who make good decisions in some kind of crisis. And why did we believe them? Because everyone was treated equally, but unfortunately very quickly they began to share children, they acted equally at first, we trusted them, they changed communication, they weren't as boastful as they are now to us and including the prime minister. The minister used to say to everyone as he does today, thank you for asking. They showed up at the beginning we didn't know or care at last if you listened to the citizens, you said finally speaking waist. When did they betray the profession? When did it happen that they were no longer equal to everyone? And once again, why won't you share your responsibility? This isn't a chance to get points now. Do you think you'll get local elections with this concern of citizens' health, about the safety of citizens? You sure as hell won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21204	We now go to the closing words, first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the respected representative Marko Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, this law is a continuation of programs that are credible for a safe Croatia. Only at the moment where we are located, neither are the government nor the headquarters credible, nor is Croatia safe. The credibility of the headquarters, which in coordination with the ruling orchestrates our business, and now we see the need to manage and our private lives are completely lost. What credibility can be given by a body responsible for preventing the spread of the epidemic, whose decisions led to a 660% increase from October 2nd to today. From 17,000 in two months, we've reached more than 130,000 infected. And who's responsible for this situation we're in? The answer is clear to everyone but those who are trying to control us. The headquarters is responsible and the Government has questioned Croatian entrepreneurs, the Croatian economy, Croatian health and health of all Croatian citizens with its inaction and unpreparedness to the second wave. They had six months to prepare themselves and us for another wave. They had six months to build a framework for action against Covid. They had six months for the framework to be properly announced, communicated and implemented. They didn't do any of that. We welcomed the fall and the second wave unprepared and disorganized which led to a situation where more than 4,000 are newly ill every day. That's the safe Croatia that beat Covid, that's the government that beat Covid and overcame the epidemic. In any event, if they had prepared the framework of the measures that await us, we could have prepared ourselves better for all the upcoming problems that they had made possible by their actions or inaction. With this approach, they have made it easier for hosts, entrepreneurs, healthcare professionals and citizens to make it easier for them to apologize, to overcome all the problems they are now in. And let me repeat, if it wasn't clear in those problems, we're in the middle of a bad reaction and government and headquarters. Their solution to these problems today is on the agenda of the Croatian National Assembly. Their solution, which had not seen the light of day, was to track its citizens through their cell phones. Their solution is to close the caterer without any information to confirm that they were the hotspots of the infection. Their solution is this amendment to the law that punishes Croatian citizens for their failures and disorganization. Their solution is that Croatian citizens report violations of their neighbours and friends by example of some not so long ago and political systems most Croats want to forget. Every day we can hear, see and read the government's calling of irresponsible people. Half the government had a crown, and the Prime Minister runs the meetings from his attic because he has a crown. And that's good, quite certainly better than hanging out in the basements at the time of the biggest lockdown. But the question arises whether the government and the Prime Minister are responsible, as they have been infected, did they respect the prescribed measures? I can't answer all your questions, but I can answer one of them. The government and the Prime Minister are irresponsible. They are irresponsible to their citizens and to the future of our country because these laws and measures will not solve a problem that should have been prepared six months ago. This law is a continuation of the sacred rule of the state in which decisions are made that change from day to day, sometimes from hour to hour. With that kind of work, we can't expect better results than we have now. Unresponsible individuals who deliberately spread the infection should be punished and I believe that no one in the Croatian National Assembly thinks otherwise. But how to trust a headquarters that has a series of contradictory decisions and statements behind it. Who can guarantee us that such decisions will not be made in the implementation of this law. Croatian sovereigns will not take part in such religious decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21206	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21207	People who have the opportunity to look at this late hour, ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues who have stayed here until these late hours, the topic and this law is significant. The pandemic is a problem in Croatian society and health and economic and economic and measures must be taken. The balance between that and the government's responsibility. You took it from headquarters. You celebrated the victory, and that's how you won the election. You had the great trust of the Croatian people by presenting yourself as professional, not political people. You're from headquarters, respected ministers, a pure political body, and we're trying to bring that up. Your decisions were contradictory, political, they were everything that shouldn't have been and that's why you lost the trust of Croatian citizens. Prime Minister Plenkovic publicly announced that he won the coronary virus, so that it is public, so he announced that he won both the elections and that safe Croatia would move on. But these measures are all but security, freedom, all that we try to give to the people, which is to respect the measures but not sanctions and no ban and no punishment. Recommendations that must be controlled of course go mainly to the weakest. They go to the expense of our entrepreneurs, our small hosts, never go to harm trade chains, banks, telegraphers picking up huge money. Of, contradiction is visible to ministers that the trust you had from headquarters was essentially messages that you were giving to adhere to measures, and basically you weren't following measures and you were responsible. You are in homes for older and powerless who are important institutions that had to be protected appointed by people i.e. You didn't name it, they named your party members in Split, for example. Mr. Scaric, you didn't replace him because of what happened, what happened, and why we have dead people and families behind them. You didn't do anything. So you just didn't leave, and mostly when you were accusing young people, you're them, please keep your distance, you're the young ones calling to keep your distance, and I accept that, but you didn't keep your distance, you didn't keep your picture with our estrad star. Your colleague from headquarters who is now my colleague, the representative I respect, has also sent contradictory messages that masks are not needed on HT's most-sighted daily, national television, that's not good. You're saying you need a mask, and your right hand or within the healthcare system is a very important person saying you don't need a mask, that it's not necessary. The prime minister does not go into self isolation in physical contact with tennis player Djokovic, the photographer goes. The farmer is forbidden to punish himself for being in self-insulation and fertilizing his field, a kilometer around him no one was, is being punished by 8,000 kuna. So there's a lot of contradiction. We are closed markets, trade chains are both McDonald's and parties, who sell foreign GMO products uncontrollably worked neatly and delivered their food, our domestic producers were unable to do so. We have major damage to the economy, and it wasn't easy. However, you have lost confidence, these sanctions will not bring any good to these penalties. You have to find the model of communication that you had at first, that people have trust, and no politicized messages created in the Incubator of the Shex. Cinciting your neighbors is the only thing a colleague or SOA has to do, it's like Vladimir Shakespeare wrote this bill. And you get it in your mouth, rattling people, disaster. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21208	Thank you very much. Since everyone cares so much about health protection, we're going to have a little bit of a sit-down now and have a break, so we can clear it all together. Uh, no, no, no, no, we have to finish, so you care about this topic very much. [[And tomorrow at 9:30.]] So this one, we might vote, we'll see, we'll see, we'll get a little wind up by 23 and 50 now and then we'll move on. Meeting at 23.40 hours. CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 23.47 HOURS Finally, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević will speak finally. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21210	Here's short, in a shorter time than usual, given these tiny nights, here's another day with debate, I'm going to say finally on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club why we can't support the amendments to this law. So, let's do this one more time, it's been 24 hours since the government's session of amendments to the law and they've come in, 24 hours not on the agenda of the assembly, but at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. If that's not an indication of the state of emergency we're in, I don't know what it is. On the other hand, what is clear and that this Article 17 clearly states this, and it is clear that there are also natural disasters and it is clear that this is actually a natural disaster and it is clear that these are very large restrictions on the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution that is the 2/3 majority. And I think that, in that sense, also colleague Boric has already told you that you care about dialogue as you have repeatedly said here that you have not proposed measures, so we have suggested a conclusion that has been buried and buried in the agenda for a month and a half days. At the press conference when we presented this conclusion we predicted precisely using the World Health Organization's data that we would have over 2,000 infected daily within a month and that we would cross the number of 1,500 unfortunately dead citizens and that unfortunately happened. And that was two weeks before others started speaking the same way as Professor Djikic, etc. So it was, we suggested some model, it's okay to reject it, but it's just that it's not even being discussed in the Croatian Parliament, because I think it's an indication that there's no dialogue. And from that perspective I'm also reading this if there was a dialogue then we'd share the responsibility and we'd say ok, 2/3 of the majority and let's see how these measures can be improved, how the penalties can be proportionate and how we can deal better with this crisis. We have already shown a desire for dialogue, but obviously you want to do it yourself, then you yourself will be responsible for everything that happens right and what happens wrong in the next few months in the management of the health crisis. We have done our share as an opposition, and we have given our hand, and it is on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21211	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ivan Celic will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The topic of yesterday's World AIDS Day was global solidarity and shared responsibility, I call on MPs and MPs from the opposition to share with us the responsibility of supporting these amendments and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The concept of measures is certainly one concept that even after the end of this epidemic will cause negative connotations. We have mentioned these measures countless times today in a positive or negative context. Public health and social measures are adapted to manage risks more effectively not only in Croatia but also in other EU Member States and around the world. Amendments to the law are necessary in order to impose criminal sanctions in view of a number of irresponsible individuals who threaten the health of others. This is one of the usual public health tools used not only in infectious diseases but also in other public health problems, and in the adoption of certain public health policies such as the fight against smoking, the fight against alcohol consumption. Most of our fellow citizens understand our circumstances very well. The primary health security of citizens, but an important and socioeconomic aspect. So far, 7.4 billion kuna has been paid, new measures will pay another 2 billion, and 100 million kunas have preserved 100,000 jobs, measures have helped more than 100,000 businesses. We have before us the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law, the HDZ Club will support it, we invite all of you to support the amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21213	And on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, finally respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21214	You see that there are less than 10 of us left not to violate these measures, you see how we have already supported in the beginning. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club shares the view of most Croatian citizens that certain sanctions for certain behaviours that threaten the lives and health of others are necessary. We have a big dilemma about the first level of penalties that are prescribed and their at least, what will be the application that we will see but the penalties are clear, their non-selective application regardless of the circumstances, at least as it says, in which this illegal behaviour happened. In particular, we think that the penalty for 500 kuna may be too severe in the first case or in case someone simply forgot, or even when a colleague mentioned that he had no ability to obtain a mask. And as for the other provisions on sanctioning private gatherings, we have great dilemmas whether, as prescribed, there is a disproportionate, disproportionate disturbance, violation of the right to home integrity. As far as public gatherings are concerned, we have smaller, smaller dilemmas because the public and private are still not comparable in the context of the gathering. As far as the staff's work is concerned, there will be more opportunities to say so during the debate announced by the minister, as well as those initiated by fellow members of the Most Independent Lists. As far as winning the first half of the crown is concerned, and I will end up with it, it reminds me of the situation, my colleague Bulj will remember the series Velo Misto and my colleague Milanović as well as Sabina and.../incomprehensible/... this is when Sparta first came to Split and in the first half gave 14 goals, and in the second half, Hajduk gave 1 goal, and then the Maester explained to his assistant, we lost 13:0 for the first half, and the second half we got 1:0, and it was usually unresolved, that was the victory in the first half. So it wasn't halftime, it wasn't even the first quarter, because the number of people infected after that first half was much bigger than that in the first half, so on. The first half, because of these dilemmas that we have and because we haven't received adequate answers from the government, unfortunately we can't share responsibility with the government, but they don't need it, they'll bring it without us. But don't be afraid, regardless of your stubborn stand, if we need to share responsibility when much greater restrictions are done in human rights, if it's a task and if it can't be done without us then we will talk and we will certainly come to a good solution. I wish you all good night and this 2 days you have a party, don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21215	Thank you very much. Did I, did I get it right that you're the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21216	That's right. Dear Mr. Bauk I know you have this sympathy for my last name, but my last name consists of Milanović litre, so please in the future 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-02-0.u21217	Great, I'm giving you a warning. This will end with today's work and will, of course, be voted upon when the conditions are met, and we will continue to work on Thursday 3rd December at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Social Care Act with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 72. I wish you two minutes to have a good day. Next. [[Good morning.]] The session was interrupted at 23.58 hours. The next club of representatives is that of the National Minorities in the name of which the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go.
