ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9705	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues yesterday and today, government representatives made it clear that there is not enough money in the budget for health care, education, children of kindergarten age, for.../incomprehensible children, for children with special needs, for students, for socially endangered and not to list further. Yesterday, in my presentation, I was talking about the problem of a university because there were no appropriations in the budget, and today I'm going to try to explain what's going on with special rehabilitation hospitals. The basic problem of poor health business and topics and thus the dissatisfaction of healthcare professionals lies above all in the fact that they value certain health services and represents a limit that is simply determined by the HZZ does not follow the real rise in prices of services and minimum limits, not to mention that they do not follow government promises when signing a contract with trade unions. Namely, the compensation for a day of hospital treatment simply determined by the HZZO often does not cover the basic costs that hospitals must settle in order to provide patients with the necessary care, treatment and care according to strict medical standards. In the past 3 years, there has been an increase in the share of material labour rights in the public health system, which represents an increase in pay costs within the limit. However, in the three-year period from 2016 to today, the limit that the HZZO approves has increased by 12.5% and only the average gross salary has increased by 21.5%. What it looks like in absolute terms is a great example of the analysis that was made at the Special Hospital in Krapina Toplice in September this year. For example. HZZO compensation for the treatment of cardiological patients referred to in the rehabilitation is 603 kuna and the cost of paying medical staff, medicines, medical consumption and laboratory material and additional diagnostic tests is 710 kuna. For the day of hospital treatment for orthopaedic rehabilitation, a price of HZZO is 370 kuna and 65 limes, while the actual cost moves up to 820 kuna. For the day of hospital treatment of spinal rehabilitation, the starting price of HZZO is 618 kuna while the actual cost moves to as much as 1.613 kuna. In order to make the matter worse, I must point out that these calculations of actual costs do not include the cost of food, cleaning and maintenance, the costs of administrative staff, the costs of technical staff and persons in the diet, the laboratory and the pharmacy, and the cost of the purchase of consumer material for physical therapy, the purchase and renewal of equipment, the retail inventory and other supplies. To increase the absurdity of the Institute for Health Services in Tourism, which is the establishment unit of the Ministry of Health, has produced an analysis of the economic price of health services for a special hospital. The calculations they came up with show that all prices received are almost double the prices paid by HZZO. Like what? The institution came up with a price for the treatment of cardiological patients of 1.164 kuna and HZZO pays 603 kuna. The Institute came up with a price for spinal rehabilitation of 1,200 kuna, and HZZO pays 618 kuna. Since all contracts with HZZO are simple acts that neither the hospital director nor the administrative board of hospitals can influence, these so-called hospitals appear to be. contracts made in a way that most hospitals are simply impossible to do positively. The example that illustrates this is that the maximum monthly amount HZZO delivers to one hospital is 9.5 million kuna, and the employee costs alone is 10 million kuna and 300 000 kuna. With such revenues where the share of total income in HZZO hospitals business is far below the actual cost of costing diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, we might be able to provide services to patients according to minimum medical standards which is not satisfactory in any case. I think it is high time for the government to ask itself whether it is necessary to reduce grants abroad for health and education institutions, grants for religious communities and other donations because, as we can see in the budget, Croatia does not have enough money for its citizens to allocate money to that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9706	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that green-left block on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9787	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we watch here for two days the performance that the Prime Minister has given us, the ruling coalition and this current majority in the assembly, most of the only one vote, and that majority sends only one message no, we don't accept, no, 1, 2, how many 3 amendments that have actually been accepted do not, we don't accept, and this is a political lesson decided by the prime minister, the ruling coalition and the current majority hold. And it's interesting that, it's paradoxical, that in this case, when every voice is this important because the only one that's giving it now is the only man I see from HDZ MP here, but I have the impression that each of you is actually walking around here it's clear that everyone knows that you're so remarkable, that you're so much needed because, without one vote, there's not this budget, without one single vote, and that's why we're told no, nothing. Nothing is accepted however well thought out, because it is democracy. Well, it's a democracy to think, to make some filters, not to go thoughtless, hasty, stupid ideas. And then we just see what kind of political play was actually the adoption of the Earthquake Rehabilitation Act because they listened, if they needed it, we forced them to listen, and we made them listen and they really eventually approved some amendments, they accepted, but now for that law, by that law they decided to give only 250 million kuna of what is this extraordinary, top manager that he can achieve for that money? And again HDZ says no, no, let's not give anything. Except when Mayor Cacic comes to him and then they have to give everything away and they give it everything right from those feet because he is one and he says no then it's over. And they count, of course, that at some point, and what if someone gets sick and we don't end up giving them HDZ says about culture not at this time when culture doesn't give more money for culture, we don't give them more money for visual activities, we don't give more money for theatre musical scene activities, we don't give more money for literary publishing, for innovative artistic and cultural practices, especially for innovative and cultural practices, and, in particular, we don't give any more money for international cultural cooperation, we certainly don't give it, we barely get rid of Oliver Frjic, we hear him directing in Germany, just let him stay there. Let Sinisa Labrovic do performances in Berlin here won't. We barely got rid of the whw curator's collective then let those in Kunsthalle in Vienna there be well the main museum of Europe and the world for contemporary art, there they can work, but we don't give this little increase we've been looking for. No, because we don't need anyone from the outside, let alone from the white world, we don't accept Đikiæ Dr. Djikić, as he can't be a member of the Academy, Croatian Academy of Science, Đikić can be German, American and these easy academics, because Đikić has been harassing us with plagiarities then Minister Barisic, who, in the end, we had to chase down, as well as all those powerful ministers we had to chase down, and now Đikić is harassing us with the account of a possible number of dead by the end of the month or by the end of the year, which is an account that little child would calculate, let alone the people who finished medicine, academics. Inconceivable, this Djikic obviously does not understand the prime minister's wise policy because he knows what can happen. The disdain of the culture that HDZ and these majority create leads only to one culture, to a culture of contempt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9876	On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9877	Dear Vice-President, respected colleagues and colleagues, I wonder if the Croatian political scene is expected by a large coalition, the SDP coalition and HDZ, and perhaps the IDS. Anyway, something strange is happening. Of the hundreds and hundreds of amendments proposed by representatives from all clubs or more or less of all clubs, only 2 amendments were accepted. And then Mr. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will say, well, those two amendments were the best, and maybe they weren't the best. I'd dare say they were such a pain in the ass. One, one amendment to the SDP, is an amendment specifically to fellow Members of the Vesna Nadj 450,000 kuna for the prevention of violence among young people. We have nothing against the prevention of violence among young people, it's okay, but here's the interesting rest that she suggested to take the money to mark the mention of the day of the Bleibur tragedy. The second amendment is 10 million kuna, the IDS amendment to the reconstruction of the Poreč Police Station. May our Croatian police have a new station, of course, but I must admit this is signifying. This doesn't happen by accident. This was not approved by Minister Maric because it is good for him, which he thinks is important to restore the police station in Poreč and because he thinks it is important to fight or prevent violence among young people. He approved this because someone ordered him, and was ordered by the Prime Minister. And I'm wondering for a reason, if Croatia's large SDP and HDZ coalition is preparing with other smaller partners, but it wouldn't actually be weird, it wouldn't be weird if we had a past mandate, we've had a past meeting with the HDZ coalition, also with the SDSS, this time there's the SDSS again, so why wouldn't it expand? Why wouldn't it spread with what we have here, which I must mention, and everyone has to know, Andrej Plenkovic's votes that he got, and he got 200,000 votes less than he got Karamarko he didn't get on his right, he got them on the left and he still looks with sympathy at the left and I'm sure this is one step in that direction. Yet you'd spend some time here to point out that Andrej Plenkovic didn't accept it? He did not accept amendments by Croatian sovereigns who spoke about key demographic measures because Andrej Plenkovic does not see for the problem that soon there will be no Croats in Croatia, but there will be no ethnic minorities, there will be no one. So it is more important to invest millions of kunas in the reconstruction of police stations, in official cars, and not in demographic measures, but he is actually his position on the biggest problem of the Croatian state, which demographics have shown long ago. He showed it when he abolished the Ministry of Demography and brought it down to the level of the central state office. This is the position of Andrej Plenkovic on demographics, but again I will stress that it remains for all those who follow Croatia's, the session of the Croatian Assembly in memory, in memory of key information, Andrej Plenkovic ordered Minister Marić to accept 2 amendments, one IDS and one SDP, and no Croatian sovereigns or any other club, and that is not an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9946	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Pavic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u9947	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, before I return to the core of my free speech, which is primarily that yesterday evening, the European Parliament approved aid from the Fund of Solidarity of EUR 683.7 million, would just like to look back at a part of what the opposition was saying about amendments and budgets. What should be said, and this is what we have also said in the budget debate, that the good part of the EU funds will not be and is not reflected within this year's budget, but that it will be available only next year and years behind. It can also be looked at by some criticisms from which amendments have been accepted, HDZ will not go into any major coalition with the SDP and IDS there is no speech there. Some may regret that they are not chips in this assembly but the coalition is stable 76 hands and tomorrow we will also vote with these 76 hands and this budget. So I don't see the concern the opposition has, perhaps to start dealing with itself rather than us, but I would return to the topic of why I came for this pay phone, which is precisely that the European Parliament has approved aid of EUR 683.7 million. 89 million EUR has already been paid to the Croatian budget this summer, but let's remember 22.3. 5.5, according to Richter, there was an earthquake, 25,000 buildings were damaged, and the Croatian government immediately set out to approve 130m kuna intervention measures to repair chimneys, roofs and dental walls. We also estimated that we do not want to rush the law, but that we want a general consensus and then the law is adopted in the 9th month along with the 40th amendment of the opposition that has been accepted. The estimated damage is $86 billion. There were also a lot of criticism we are late for applying for the Solidarity Fund, it will not arrive, what part I co-ordinated personally was important to have a quality assessment, and now we see this and here, after the European Commission has accepted it and after the European Parliament voted it. In total, we expected around EUR 500 million of damage at the end, and in the additional negotiations this summer, up to EUR 683 million was managed. Then the criticisms would not be good with the fund, the fund was established, so there will be corruption because who knows who we will appoint, and Mr. Vangelic, the manager with great experience, has been appointed as the temporary manager of the fund, and there has been no criticism. Now there are criticisms that maybe a little in the budget for next year for that fund. But with the exception of these EUR 683 million, which most of them have to go to public buildings, there will be 200 million kuna, and there will be EUR 200 million from the World Credit as well as many credit loans. In addition to not all the virtual money, we were personally approached by the President of the European Commission, Ms Ursula von der Leyen, and the budget had over EUR 500 million of payments from the SURE programme for job protection. So these are not virtual coins anymore, these coins sit regularly on the account of the Croatian budget, they are spent on measures, 8 billion kunas for saving 600,000 jobs, we entered or entered the program 1 2 for joining and entering the euro zone, and by the next and all these measures that the Croatian Government has taken, following primarily this ERM II procedure to enter the Eurozone and in the midst of this crisis when previous governments have lost credit ratings three times, we have even increased credit ratings. Therefore, the EU's value in the crisis is now seen, €683 million—and we are at our disposal for the City of Zagreb let's make good use of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u10017	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u10018	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues today I will present to you the requirements of the Initiative Live Village for Food sovereignty which currently numbers over 50 agricultural associations and alliances and organisations dealing with rural development and entrepreneurship in rural areas, which are aimed at addressing the accumulated problems in agriculture and related activities. The problems with agricultural land, excessive imports, placement and labelling of domestic food by withdrawing funds from EU funds and the legislative framework are only a part of the causes which prevent normal business and competitiveness of small and micro-enterprises in agriculture. The text of the initiative was given to all political parties in the election campaign, and these days the text of the initiative also arrived at the Assembly Committee on Agriculture and was submitted to us by the professional service on the orders of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Therefore, the requirements of the Initiative The living village for food sovereignty are next. In the first place, the definition of agriculture as strategic branches based on the principles of sustainable development and circular economy in the development documents of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. Then, positioning micro and small enterprises so OPGs, crafts, companies, cooperatives, producer organisations as the backbones of the development of Croatian agriculture and rural space. Special emphasis is placed on family farms in sustainable food production. Then, the reform of agricultural land policy as a fundamental resource in agriculture, which includes the privatisation of state agricultural land, resolving the issue of abandoned and unprocessed agricultural land, placing land in private ownership in the function of agricultural production, returning agricultural areas to use by Croatian forests to use farmers by respecting the principles of inclusiveness and dialogue, transparency and fair transition. As part of the reform, the European Commission is required to increase agricultural areas suitable for direct payments, allowing Croatia to increase the financial envelope and to find support for this initiative among the European Parliament's representatives. Next, the adoption of implementing policies and rules for the even development of rural space based on sustainability and bio-economic principles, while respecting regional specificities, which will allow for the creation of new jobs and services and rural tourism development. Next, the amendment and adaptation of national legislation to European legislation and the creation of assumptions that will enable the equating of business conditions and competitiveness in relation to participants from the European environment and protect domestic producers from unfair competition and consumers from false labelling of food products. So I'm talking about the tax system, the establishment of agrobank, the labelling of food, the hygiene package, etc. Then, in order to ensure sustainability in food supply chains, we need to help farmers and fishermen to strengthen their position in the supply chain through association and to achieve a fair share of the added value of production by ensuring consistent application of the EU Directive and national law on protection against unfair commercial practices and pressure from stakeholders who have a dominant position in the food supply chain. Then, the maximum use of resources from European and national sources intended for agriculture, regional and rural development, as well as research, innovation and development of new technologies, by simplifying procedures related to competitions and removal of bureaucratic barriers and reducing administrative burdens, the limitation of the level of direct payments and redistribution of support and rural development funds towards micro and small farmers. Then, at present, we must approach the integration of blue and green Croatia, and this through the creation of an action plan, respecting a multi-functional and cross-sectoral approach, and should be based on a future EU strategy from field to table within a green agreement aimed at ensuring food security, promoting sustainable practices in the food processing sector, wholesale, retailing, catering and services, food and promoting sustainable food consumption and facilitating the transition to a healthy and sustainable diet. Particular attention should be paid to promoting the importance of local food, short supply chains and green public procurement. The pandemic caused by Covidom-19 has shown us that this is particularly important to ensure. Ensuring the subsocial labour rights of farmers and agricultural workers equally to all other activities. As far as the very important requirements behind which a large number of farmers are concerned, I find it very important to get trust as wide as possible to the public. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u10072	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will now speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u10073	Here, we've been discussed for two days about the amendments. yesterday and today on the budget of the most important document and when I look at the misery and misery of the majority, empty benches for two days, the relationship with your colleagues who have been elected with a lot more votes can be preferential or in any other way than they themselves speak about the self-sufficiency of yourselves, you are at the heart of the whole world, you are spinning the globe, and in fact everything we have spoken, we have spoken and suggested in the best religion of the amendment that not only Zagreb, of course, that Zagreb has died, but the entire Republic has a certain fair, even development of a certain financial framework, not only those areas but all social groups that have been neglected in Croatian society. The opposition has given 300 amendments and more amendments, my club 165, I have given myself 70 amendments, and now that I'm listening to former Minister Pavic, I wonder if we live in reality or if these lights are really losing control of them. Well, you, sir, as minister, have promised the Imotic End, the Cetin End, to burn the Dalmatians through some sort of fund to settle huge money. Neither did the kunas win the elections, nor did they win the kunas. You are now talking about Zagreb as a problem that has suffered a great tragedy and we are going to talk about it, you are talking about European funds where Croatia is at the bottom after withdrawing funds to the EU, at the bottom. You're talking about, according to GDP, Croatia is in a very bad position, if it wasn't for the emigrated Croats that you and your policies have pushed down these young people would be working in the Republic today, creating their families would have developed Croatia, have a better demographic picture. So when we talk about something, then we try to talk a lot more seriously. The opposition went on all day yesterday and made constructive amendments this morning. The amendments you've been trying to think about and you've been trying to hear them, I'm sorry if there's also the mayor Drnisha who hasn't heard or listened to the amendments and explanations, and not that tomorrow he doesn't know whether to vote for the Drain End or the Drnish End, and others who haven't been here. I know it's embarrassing to listen to the truth, each will tell the truth there are two medals, there are problems, there's no opposition here to God, but why don't you want to hear why you're admitting from the store to the former ministers. You say some want to be chips you know who promotes chips, you and your government. You were the minister on the principle of tokens in the Croatian Parliament and you legitimize them and send a message I don't know who, some would like to be chips. This is about serious things, things where the Croatian budget could increase income, regardless of EU dependence, that EU funds, but how much membership there will be. We declare the exclusive economic belt, what the Italians are doing now and clapping, with a round of applause in our assembly, if we had declared an exclusive economic belt, would have protected our sea, our flora and fauna, our fish fund and everything that belonged to us, 24,000 km2 of our seas would have protected us and poured money into our budget through our fishermen and in other ways. If we were good enough to have a lot more resources in the budget than energy, we wouldn't be able to get into whose pockets on wind power plants and other ways. So we'd have our resources, we wouldn't be addicted. If we had, we would have asked for the brave and powerful war damage that Serbia has done to us, we would have had money for those undeveloped areas that are fueled by war, robbed, devastated, not by the guilt of Croatian people in the area, but you have no strength and courage. So that your fog about funds, your public procurements that are being settled in clubs in Slovenia 9 that destroyed the competition of entrepreneurs and that money that will come to Zagreb was asked which club they will go to to agree on. With a bag full of money. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u10074	That's what we're done with the club exposure. We'll take a break again for ventilation and for short rest and see you again at 14:30 with the next item, and this will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act with the final bill as announced. Thank you very much. It's 1:00.38. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u10158	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have spoken several times in recent months from this pay phone about our concern for the state of health in Croatian health. I was talking about the chaos that apparently took place around the treatment organisation of Covid-19 patients. On a daily basis, information and data are published that confirm that the government is neither serious nor carefully organised all the necessary conditions in the people, drugs and appliances so that they can cope with the pandemic. And there's no excuse that there wasn't time, because now that February or March, we know what's ahead of us and could have done a much better job by organising and coordinating. I spoke from this pay phone and that the most modern hospital in Croatia KB Dubrava that covers huge territory with many people has turned exclusively into a Covid hospital. We've already asked a lot of, a lot of questions. News of the dissatisfaction and departure of prominent doctors who eat only the tissue and the hospital are also daily. I also talked about growing concerns about the quality and availability of healthcare services for all other citizens, about prevention, diagnostics, treatment that is in the country's cold drive at a waiting range and in delays that are turning into longer and longer waiting lists. We'll talk about it all over here in the assembly again, and when it comes to the agenda, there's an interpretation of the state of health that we've sent to the procedure. Yesterday, late in the evening, our fear and constant warnings to the government to play with the lives and health of people received another certificate in the form of a statement sent to the public by the Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors. It warns us that the contact tracking system and the setting of epidemiological measures have completely fallen apart because they did not activate and educate people who would help epidemiologists in time. It's like February or March was yesterday, like there was no time. They warn us that by testing we have reached both human and technical maximums because an appropriate testing network is not organized throughout the country. They also warn us that the hospitals treated by Covid are patients prior to capacity-fulfilment, which is why patients are in direct danger. The Ministry of Health has not yet made the necessary guidelines or criteria for the situation when we end up with staff or respirators and there is absolutely no coordination but fate decisions are left to people on the ground. And perhaps crucially, what I have personally warned several times including directly Prime Minister Plenkovic during the current morning, doctors warn that communication is bad and chaotic, that it brings unrest and anxiety among people because we have no idea that communication is being systematically managed, nor that there is any plan or programme of measures, depending on possible scenarios of the development of the situation. And right now I am addressing Prime Minister Plenkovic directly, I am paying your attention to the fact that the Croatian public is concerned about the state of health and that this concern is daily confirmed by those who are in the heart of the storms of doctors, nurses and other staff and patients. Please note that communication with citizens is in order and that you finally come to the Croatian public with a plan and a work programme based on possible variations of developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12288	Now we are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Foreign Law, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 12. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Party's Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, the IDS Representatives' Club, Katarina Peović's representative and the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means and I will now ask the applicant's representative to take note of the amendments submitted. With us is Secretary of State at the MUP, Honorable Zarko Katic. Let's go in turn, the 1st amendment of MP Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12289	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is not subject to the final proposal of the Foreign Law since the establishment of a tax residence or the regulation of a new tax type is governed by other regulations, in particular by tax legislation. Digital nomad, I remind you, cannot work in Croatia for Croatian employers, nor can it, be self-employed in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12290	There are no honourable MPs, so we'll vote on that. 2nd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12291	The government does not accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on foreigners has already been the subject of an assessment of the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, which, by its decision of 24 June 2020, rejected the requirements for the assessment of constitutionality with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the Advocate General and the Administrative Court in Zagreb or by a decision, did not accept a proposal to initiate the procedure of one natural person. The Constitution expressly allows for the restriction of fundamental rights which satisfy the principle of proportionality set out in Article 16. The Constitution of the The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia confirmed the constitutionality of the provisions of the applicable Act on Foreigners from the position of the constitutionality of the test of proportionality. Namely, SOA determines the existence or absence of an obstacle in a person with his or her behaviour and residence on the territory of the Republic of Croatia by means of his or her legal, appropriate and necessary methods. public interest. The proposed Article 5(2) of the local draft law has already been implemented so-called a non-classified summary so that the party is familiar with the minimum facts and legal basis on which the opinion of the SOA is based, while at the same time not jeopardising national security by revealing all classified data. If such an unclassified summary would not be sufficient to achieve the legal interest of the party then the Administrative Court may carry out an examination of the classified file of the Agency in accordance with Article 20. The law on the confidentiality of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12292	On behalf of the bloc respected representative, excuse me, please make a deal. Honorable representative Bencic, please. [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12293	Yeah, that's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12294	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't see you, I just don't know, is, is, we'll handle it, no worries,... We'll settle this just to get the respected representative Bencic to answer this. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12295	So we'll be back.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12296	We'll be back first because my colleague Peovic didn't pick up in time, so I didn't see her, so we'll go back to the first. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12297	Thank you. I thank you for your explanation. The reason why we asked that SOA is to carry out a test of proportionality and a test of public interest for those data deemed to be likely to jeopardise the interests of national security is that there have been a number of examples that the Administrative Court has torn down SOA's assessment of the security obstacle and has made it clear that there has to be a level of information that will allow the complainant to complain about the legality of the proceedings and that it can actually establish that there is no security obstacle or that it is based on facts that are not correct. So, what is important is to point out that such a case at the Constitutional Court was precisely about SOA's assessments, and it was also about an assessment of the safety risk that led to the case of one of our judges who had also been identified as a security risk which made it impossible to advance within the system and, in its case, the Constitutional Court concluded that it had to have the ability to understand on the basis of which it had concluded that it, that it had a security risk or a security obstacle and that it had therefore to have the possibility of disprove it, too, to disprove those facts on the basis of which SOA came to that conclusion. So, if this is true for her, given that it is constitutional rights and freedoms, we believe that this should also apply to foreigners in the asylum-seeking or residence-approval process. For that reason, we've been looking for this, we're staying on the amendment, and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12298	Thank you. We will now return to the first, first amendment, the respected representative Peovic will be manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12299	Here, thank you, there's been a bit of a mix-up I've been sitting in the hall, uh, well, mostly it means the amendment regarding digital nomads. The digital nomad is a third-country national who is employed or does business through communication technology for a company or own company that is not registered in the Republic of Croatia. Here is the problem of asking this amendment for a worker who does business through communication technologies but is located in Croatia to use all the infrastructure they use and everyone in Croatia is therefore required to participate in taxes. So if it comes to us, what are digital nomads at all, they are means of third-country nationals, let's say, Americans who are expected to spend a large amount of money in Croatia, by this law go hand in hand to come here, let's say that you explained to me at one time that they are participating in Croatia by promoting it as a tourist destination, but at the same time they will not be participating in taxes even though they will, of course, use all the infrastructure used by other workers and other people in Croatia. So it was important to me that those who live here are participating in taxes. The moment we get out of our house, when we enter into that public sphere, we are in an area and a field that is common and in a sphere in which we must all participate and we must participate equally in it. So the exemption of those who are expected to spend large amounts of tax obligations by me is not socially correct, nor is it socially aware, nor is it going to achieve the task that is intended to be achieved by such actions that are always highly assessed by the rulings as soon as we have the word digital or technology, we all immediately become happy, but so they must also be participated in taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12300	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12302	Thank you. We're going to the 3rd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12303	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The provisions of the Final Proposal of the Act on the Liability of the Carrier are fully in line with the Transporter Liability Directive. is a Council Directive of 28 June 2001 supplementing the provisions of Article 26. Convention on the application of the Schengen Agreement of '85. The Directive refers to the external borders of the EU, although it applies to all carriers in practice most often to air carriers and most often, most often these carriers are obliged to bear the costs of returning foreigners who entered the country illegally. So, the amendment refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12304	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12305	... and in this response to your answer, state the reasons why we asked to revise such a liability for the carrier, it is indeed a majority concern for those carriers operating in the areas of the EU's external borders. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] This especially puts a greater burden on our carriers. In that sense, we have made an amendment that carriers do not bear costs unless they really have no knowledge that they are transporting a third-country national who has been refused entry into another country because they cannot be asked by carriers to control and passengers in a way that they are reviewing documents for stay in another country because it is not their job, they have no competences and it is too much burden on them. It's not true, of course, also that it's only about air carriers, it can be any other transport, for example, bus transport, so our question remains that you think specifically that people who participate in road transport, for example, in road transport, will be competent to check such things. So, such practice goes in the direction of supervision of foreigners by other citizens and people who are neither police nor any state service, and we consider it unacceptable and from the aspect of building a democratic society, but also from the aspect of putting an inappropriate burden on certain social groups. We're still staying on this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. I will only point out that the directives are binding on the target, not in their own letter, and that each Member State is free to adapt the way the Directive is integrated into its legal system in a way that achieves this objective, but that it is also in line with other values and the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12306	4th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Green-Left bloc Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12307	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. In particular, Article 53 of the final proposal for a law is fully in line with the Council Directive of 28 November 2002, which defines the assistance of the unauthorized entry of transit and residence and the Council Framework Decision of 28 November 2002 on strengthening the framework in order to prevent unauthorized entry of transit and residence. The attempt to assist is an integral part of the above-quoted directive, and the European Commission has explicitly warned the Republic of Croatia that it is required to define aid to implement national legislation as we have done, but in that same Article 52, the exceptions are listed which are not considered to be aid, this is very detailed, I would only remind that it is aiding that also to save lives, prevent injury, provide emergency medical assistance, provide humanitarian assistance, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12308	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12309	So what we have proposed as an amendment is to specify that aiding for humanitarian reasons is considered to result in no material and financial benefit for the aider but is guided by a moral and humanitarian principle in situations of necessary assistance to protect the life and integrity of a person. I will now give you very specific examples of the population, our residents of the districts located in the border areas, especially at the external borders of the Sisak-Moslavina County, which have indeed given food to migrants who would go there for purely humanitarian reasons, I must say that it is only a very poor population, and that I have found myself in a situation that has told me a significant number of them that in the last 2 years they are literally being punished or threatened with criminal penalties because they provide food assistance or clothing to people who cross the border and who are actually seeking asylum. For this reason, we wrote to the Human Rights Committee a few years ago, and then the government accepted and integrated this exception into the law, where it defines what a humanitarian reason is and that it is the aid that does not result in material financial benefits. This can also be about helping with advice, for example, to apply to the police, to seek asylum, etc., so all things motivated by moral reasons and humanitarian principles must be freed, or to specify that they do not fall under the kind of help that constitutes an offence. So I ask you to reconsider this because we don't want to criminalise solidarity, we don't want to become a society in which citizens are afraid to help in existentially difficult situations, whether domestic citizens, or foreigners, because they might be threatened by punishment, criminal punishment. Thank you, we're staying and we're asking to vote on this. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12310	5th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12311	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. Third-country nationals who, in accordance with the proposal of this law, will regulate the temporary stay for the purpose of the digital nomad, must not operate or in any way provide services to the Croatian employer already exclusively work and provide services to an employer who is not registered in the Republic of Croatia. They are therefore not subject to provisions laying down conditions for the authorisation of stay and work of third-country nationals in the Republic of Croatia. They only get a temporary stay, not a work permit. And once again I stress they are not explicitly exempt from this provision, by this tax law, it will be regulated from case to case, depending on which country they come from and what bilateral relations with the Republic of Croatia are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12312	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12313	Dear Secretary of State, that I think we, for the last time, discussed it and we welcomed the introduction of this concept of digital nomad, but it also stands out, and I agree with you that they will work for foreign employers, but we also have our citizens who work exclusively for foreign employers, and that there is a question of equal treatment that we consider to be little perhaps non-chalantly just being inserted, and that many more things that need to be discussed are simply not defined and therefore we are looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12314	6th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12315	This amendment is not accepted. The application of evidence of judicial indemnity shall be submitted exclusively when the first regulation of the status of third-country nationals in the Republic of Croatia. The current practice of residence regulation points to the need for further verification of persons intending to regulate their status in the Republic of Croatia, which is also guaranteed by the EU acquis. The applicant considers that third-country nationals who are first approved to stay in the Republic of Croatia are obliged to provide evidence that they do not pose a risk to the public order of the Republic of Croatia. In the past year, such a temporary stay was given to more than 80,000 people, which I pointed out in the interpretation of the law, and indeed, it would be wrong for them not to provide evidence of indemnity in the country from which they originate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12316	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12317	We can agree with you that in principle, of course, you can ask such permission from anyone asking for a temporary stay, we have not suggested otherwise with this amendment. What we have suggested is that if a person comes from a war on the affected area or areas where the institutions of the state have been destroyed in a way that this permit cannot, physically cannot be obtained, that it is unreally expected to result in a certificate of impunity and to provide for an exception to this case. So, to provide for an exception for when it is really physical at that point, it is impossible to approve a temporary stay that may have a certain suspension clause in such a way that if, when the conditions for obtaining that authorisation are obtained, if, for obtaining a certificate, it is shown that a person has been convicted or in any other way compromised or not falls under, it does not satisfy the conditions for temporary stay that he is then abolished because it is not really right for those persons who come from areas where such permits are not possible to proceed, and you know that currently in the world of such areas there are many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12318	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12319	We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12320	7th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12321	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. In fact, the Foreign Law does not hang in the airspace it is part of the overall legislation of the Republic of Croatia, so in this case we need to see what is prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. He says the Board of Appeal cannot replace the second-degree body responsible for resolving the complaint, so it was necessary to comply with the provision of Article 12. The ZUP which is prescribed the right of the party to a legal remedy in such a way as to allow the party to initiate the administrative dispute in accordance with the ZUS. In fact, it is not about administrative matters which are of such nature that, in any case, the execution of an individual decision would damage the party. So we are of the opinion that it is not necessary to prescribe that the action always has a delayed effect, if the party considers that it will be severely violated by its right or cause serious repairable damage, in accordance with Article 140. The ZUP may request that they postpone, so it may request a stay of execution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12322	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12323	Thank you. Therefore, this is specifically about a proposal for an amendment that would allow an action brought by the Administrative Court to delay the implementation of a solution which does not approve of a temporary stay. Why? Because it is about the consequences that, which you can't actually resolve anymore, so once you cancel or refuse someone's temporary stay and he has to get away from the Republic of Croatia within a certain number of days, he can't even be, he can't even participate in that procedure at the Administrative Court. So that makes it impossible for him because he's not physically in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, such an action does not constitute an effective legal remedy in terms of guaranteeing an effective legal remedy which is a constitutional category for reasons which, while the process ends in the Administrative Court, the question is whether this person will be able to return and receive a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia at all and whether it will be more relevant at all. So what we predicted and why we actually suggested it was because the appeal committee was abolished. So so far we've had a complaint in the administrative procedure, right, and now we're no longer in the administrative process of appeal, but we're going to go to administrative, but we're going to the administrative dispute right now. In such a case, when it comes to such rights as staying, such as the possibility of taking part in the procedure, because you have or do not have a place in a country, we believe that in any case, the complaint to the Administrative Court should delay the execution of the solution and we also believe that if this does not happen, we will certainly test the issue of the effectiveness of this legal medicine in the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12324	8th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12325	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. Article 9 The final draft of the law has already been prescribed that a person without citizenship may be issued a travel document under the conditions laid down in the Convention on the Status of Persons without Citizenship of 1954 if he has an approved temporary stay, a long stay or a permanent stay. I note, in this case, that it is necessary to unquestionably establish that it is a stateless person, and Article 61(3) of the final proposal of the law already provides that a third-country national who does not have a valid foreign travel document is subject to a temporary stay request in the Republic of Croatia to issue a decision on the granting of a temporary stay. Therefore, even before the finding that it is indeed a stateless person allows such a stranger to regulate his stay in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12326	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12327	Thank you. So, as you yourself have said, it may be possible, but the law does not predict that apartrides must be allowed to participate in the procedure even though they do not have a valid side of the travel document. So, being an apatrid means you don't have a valid side travel document, you don't have a passport because you're not a citizen of any state unless, of course, you have one by convention. And what we're saying is that we can't ask people without citizenship and who don't have that kind of travel document for apartrides that you can't ask them for a travel document because you know she's gone, that's like a doorknob 22, yeah, you don't have a right, but I'm looking for a right, but because you don't have a right. So we can't regulate it in this way or we can say that a person without citizenship is not obliged to apply a valid travel document, a foreign travel document except that, if it is, of course, proven to be a stateless person that you must do and that, in case of course, having a travel document based on the UN International Convention, that this travel document is then attached. However, I say, we can't put the doorknobs 22 into laws, but they are also for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so we don't need to be surprised that they're being put on for foreigners. We're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12328	9th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12329	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons for not accepting this amendment are the same as for not accepting Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12330	In the name of the club, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12331	The reasons for not accepting your argument are the same as in the previous point. It is again that the action brought by the Administrative Court, if it does not delay the solution, does not delay the implementation of the solution that it is not then an effective remedy, given that the Board of Appeal has been abolished as the only appeal so that we remain with this amendment and are asking to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12332	10th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12333	The amendment is not accepted. In the final proposal, the final draft law prescribes the approval of a temporary stay for the purpose of a life partnership approved by a third-country national who is in a life or informal life partnership with a Croatian citizen, a third-country national who has an approved long-term residence, permanent or temporary stay or who has been granted asylum or subsidiary protection in the Republic of Croatia and with other conditions for staying. Third-country nationals who are granted a temporary stay for the purpose of life partnership shall exercise the right to autonomous stay, the right to work and self-employment without the need to obtain a residence permit and work or to confirm their application of work, then the right to education and completion, as well as to obtain permanent stay under more favourable conditions. Therefore, from this point of view, this category of third-country nationals is not discriminated against in any way, although currently in the Republic of Croatia 43 third-country nationals regulated a temporary stay for the purpose of life partnership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12334	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12335	So the reason why we asked it to be defined in Article 64(1) is because family members are defined there. We see no reason why life partners and informal life partners are regulated particularly beyond what is considered family members for the simple reason that the European Court of Human Rights has acknowledged that stable links between cohabitation of same-sex couples fall under the notion of family life. Furthermore, the statement by the Constitutional Court on the constitutional referendum on the definition of marriage pointed out in particular that a possible addition of the Constitution to a provision under which marriage is a woman and a man's life union must have no effect on further development of the legal frameworks of an extramarital community institute and that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right to respect, legal protection of their personal and family life. So here you treat life partners only in the context of your personal life, but you do not want to define them under family members so that we again appeal to comply with other laws of the Republic of Croatia such as the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination that life partners or informal life partners are defined precisely in an article defining family members. Thank you. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12336	11th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12337	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter The final proposal of the Foreigning Law is in line with Article 20. The EU Directive and the European Parliament and the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of researching training, volunteering, exchange of students or educational projects and the conduct of OBP operations. Article 7 too. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals as part of intra-corporate transfers. Following the above, if this amendment were to be accepted in a proposed manner, it would be contrary to the directives that I have previously stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12338	On behalf of the club, is anyone answering? No, then we'll vote on it. We're going to the 12th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12339	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The violation of labour rights and labour rights, of the collective agreement and of illegal employment, is certainly a strict obstacle in this law to the employment of foreigners, so it cannot be left to the ministry's free assessment, according to the amendment's explanation, the amendment's proposing, and I can quote the reasons for the previous 11th amendment, which says that this would be contrary to the directives that I have made in the context of not accepting the 11th amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12340	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12341	I do not accept an argument that says that something is not in line with the Directives unless specifically stated in our proposal, in accordance with what provision of the directive, as well as a method of implementation of the Directives in other Member States or with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, of the European Court of Justice. So what we have proposed here is that the ministry, through the police department or police station, must, and not as you have defined, but must refuse to issue a permit for stay and work to that employer who does not fulfil obligations in relation to social security, workers' rights, working conditions and employment and tax obligations, or a collective contract that binds the employer. The same person who has been convicted of crimes in the field of employment and social security and the person who has been sanctioned for undeclared work or illegal employment. So, what are we suggesting here? We suggest that those employers who have already been proven to have exploited workers, that they have not fulfilled their obligations to domestic workers or foreign workers, that we cannot allow them, therefore, especially now that we do not have a quota system, that as much as they want to import labour probably at the expense of those people who will come and at the expense of their workers who will lower the labour price. So, this, this amendment and this regulation are also supported by trade unions because they know what practice it used to be. We also know what the practice of certain employers was during the quota system in which all the conditions of certain foreign workers worked and how much this really affected the deterioration of working conditions in certain sectors. So we ask you once again to consider that you cannot leave the arbitration assessment of the police station or your ministry to see if in such cases the recorded, proven previous Infringement of workers' rights allows someone to import new workers. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Yeah, we're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12342	I want you to stay at the time you're supposed to. 13th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12343	The amendment is not accepted. Article 94 of the final draft of the law has already prescribed the way in which employers are checked and the applicant is of the opinion that this provision already contains protective mechanisms to prevent third-country nationals from being put in a more unfavourable position than Croatian citizens, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12344	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12345	Here, I'll go for the public, but also my colleague, these few colleagues sitting here, tell us what we suggested. We have proposed that the tax administration or central insurance register check determines that the employer does not pay the wages or contributions or does not pay the salaries and contributions in accordance with the applicable collective contract, the Labour Act and other regulations that regulate the way of accounting and payment of salaries, including minimum wage provisions, and that there is also a obligation to make such checks when it is done that the employer puts a foreign worker in a more unfavourable position than other employees in the company with regard to the amount of wages and working conditions and conditions of progress because it is discrimination, but also resulting in a long-term reduction of labour prices, but also working conditions for all workers regardless of whether they are domestic or foreign. So we want to regulate this provision the issue of exploiting foreign labour in order to lower labour prices and put foreign workers in a more unfavourable position. So, I think it's supposed to be for you as a government. I hope that you were not the aim of the Foreign Law and the abolition of the quota system that actually enables employers to lower the labour price, but that you really wanted what it says in the reasoning of the law, which is that those employers who lack labour can get the better working force they need, but that they really wanted to protect both foreign and domestic workers not to get lower labour prices. Just as you have defined this and by refusing this amendment to make these security points within that entire system that it will not happen, you show that the intention was different. You referred to the Slovenian model, the Slovenian model has these different fuses within the system that prevent this type of exploitation and make it impossible for significant deterioration of working conditions to occur. The way we did it, it's total liberalisation. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12346	14th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12347	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. In particular, it is necessary to distinguish the process of labour market testing from the process of issuing a residence and work permit. Only after it has established that there is no relevant worker on the national labour market and informs the employer that he may initiate and initiate the request procedure for a foreign labour force or submit an application for the authorisation of stay and work to the MUP. It will, however, request the opinion of the HZZ by respecting the principle of economicity of the procedure under official duty if the employer fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 99 of the final draft law, which relates to the orderly business in the Republic of Croatia. Other articles such as 93 and 94 that were recently spoken of are also very precise, which are obstacles to enabling the employer to employ a foreign worker and I responsibly argue that an unsettled employer will not get approval for the employment of a foreign workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12348	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12349	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we demand a vote on this amendment. So when you open a process of some kind, then all process actions should be defined in that process. On the one hand, our mouths are full of openness, transparency, economics, but on the other hand, when you read all this together, then you see that we do not actually make it easier for employers to employ foreign labour, not to make it easier for the foreign labour force to really be employed, but we are making it difficult. So today's model we have is showing that it's not good, and in this model, the employer will once take the labour market test, then the foreign labour force will go with a request to the police station, or to your ministry, the MUP, then in its process, it will seek something else that the employer could already, on request, bring and while the employer does so, the labour force will go and look for somewhere else. We just need to know what our goal is, what our purpose is, and for any such process, we need to define process actions. If you'd defined it, you'd have put the process shop houses together and you'd see how long it takes, and you wouldn't actually make it easier than make it as difficult as you make it. Thank you very much. I always say I'm looking for a vote, so I said it this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12350	15th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12351	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. It is persistently doubtful that this labour market test institute, which is introduced by this law, although the core task of the HZZ is to intervene in employment, is therefore not acceptable to believe that this intervention will be carried out on a formal basis and that the labour market test is some weak link of the whole system. The proposed concept of foreign employment guarantees priority tasks, protection of domestic labour forces and enhanced control of the work of third-country nationals. For the first time, employment, for the employment of foreigners, employers must meet conditions that are not negligible, which are a guarantee of orderly business in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12352	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12353	Thus, the labour market test has been assessed by the trade unions by a negative assessment in e-consultation as well as in comments after the first reading of the law, and points out that the labour market test represents the weakest link between the whole new proposed law and the envisaged employment system, because although employers still formally have an obligation to search for workers first and foremost in domestic workers through the intervention of the HZZ, it is only a form. The following search can only be carried out on a formal basis because the employer and the worker must agree on working conditions and the domestic worker shall, of course, have the right to refuse work unless he is satisfied with the offered working conditions. The moment a domestic worker refuses to work, the employer may request permission to work for a foreign worker because he has not found the home worker. The quota system as long as it maintains the possibility of raising labour prices for the weakest paid jobs because quotas mean limiting the ability of the employer to lower the labour price by counting with the labour force from the third countries that he is preparing, there will always be someone who wants to work for less wages, less fees. In all these fields, Croatia has an educated workforce, especially criminally it means that some segments are excluded from the labour market test, and the lack of workers is due to a low labour price. It's not that we don't have a worker, it's that our salary is three times lower than our wages in Austria and Germany. The labour shortage raises the labour price especially in those areas where profits are high, we are talking about a building where we have very high profits and the weakest paid workforce. So people go to work in Germany, and we import labor. It's not that she doesn't have the workforce, it's that we pay her too low. With this law, you will allow these salaries to continue to go down, and you will absolutely not be able to prevent them from abolishing the quotas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12354	Are you asking for a vote? 16th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12355	The amendment is not accepted. In addition to agriculture where we all agree that this seasonal activity in the Republic of Croatia is largely tourism, catering and forestry, it should also be borne in mind that the activity of seasonal character, although we would like it not to be so and here it is proposed that for, no labour market test is carried out, the exception to the implementation of the labour market test should be taken into account only in case of employment of foreign workers for up to 90 days. So if the duration is 120 or e.g. 6 months at that time is an obligation to carry out a labour market test. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12356	On behalf of the counsel club? No one, we're gonna have to vote on that. We have the next amendment number 17. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12357	The amendment is also not accepted, and the reasons for not accepting is the same as I have given for the previous amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12358	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12359	Thank you. So, what we have mentioned and explained to you is that the exemption of seasonal workers in agriculture, forestry, hospitality and tourism in the territory of Croatia for up to 90 days during the calendar year without carrying out the labour market test and the opinion of the regional service puts domestic seasonal workers in a more unfavourable position, especially with regard to the price of working conditions, because the employer does not have the obligation of primary employment of local labour force and the negotiation of labour prices can already reach foreign seasonal workers immediately. So now let's move a little bit more specifically on what it might look like. Domestic, for example, maids are looking for the price of work that is at a level of 5, 5.5 thousand kuna net monthly why someone would take them if they can get, if they can get a worker out in less than 90 days as long as in most of our tourist resorts the season unfortunately lasts. So what this will mean for agriculture, what this will mean, for example, for those people who live out of these seasonal jobs in agriculture and forestry and are trying to negotiate the labour price so that this labour price can cover the cost of living when now these employers do not have to negotiate with them but can introduce significantly cheaper labour from neighbouring countries. Indeed, when you look at what the potential consequences are, no one can be clear in this assembly why they should not put on an insurance that applies to all other employers in all other sectors regardless of the number of days on which the employment is taken. And you know how much room for malfeasance is opening up, not that we saw it once. We stand by this amendment, we ask that it be voted upon, and we appeal to you to try and think about accepting after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12360	18th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12361	This period on which it is valid, so first of all the amendment, the Government does not accept. So, this deadline on which the 90-day labour market test was valid was a topic of broad discussion between the social partners and, as you remember in the first reading was 180-day period, however, the subsequent alignment between the social partners and the legislator came about that it would still be better to put a 90-day deadline, thus protecting the meaning of the labour market test and protecting the domestic labour force. Yes, employers will then have to apply more frequently for a labour market test, but we think that this argument is that the stronger protection of the domestic force still prevails in this sense to propose its validity for 90 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12362	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12363	Thank you very much. Of course we're asking for a vote on this amendment. So in the first reading, the deadline was 180 days. With this amendment, we suggest that the 90-day deadline return to 180 days. The domestic labour market will not protect you with a deadline of 90, not 180, not from 120, not from 360, but you will protect some other measures and in some other way, but if you decide to go into the new Foreign Law, if we are aware of the fact that we have problems with the workforce, if we want foreigners to come to us and work with us, then we must not be enemies to our employers, but we should see together with them what is the most appropriate deadline. So, I repeat once again, the experiences of some other countries, and the experiences of our countries, while the employer finds a side of the workforce, as it all comes out, while doing everything together, that workforce will go somewhere else and it won't stay there, that means you're working hard for the players, but so we just need to know what the point is and the goal is. Is the purpose and purpose of this law really encouraging and giving employers the opportunity to hire foreign workers or do it formally, and we essentially plant the clips and legs all the way we can. So it's not going to be 90 or 120 or 180 and the side of the workforce, or we're going to be acceptable to them or we're not going to be acceptable to them, so they're going to go to some other countries where they're going to be able to do it more easily, faster and in the ultimate line for bigger money. Thank you very much, as I was saying earlier, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12364	19th Amendment of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12365	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The permit to stay and work for a third-country national shall be issued, among other things, provided that the employer fulfils the obligations relating to social security, labour rights, the conditions of his work and employment, that he respects tax or tax obligations and respects the collective contract. This enables the protection of both domestic workers and foreign labour forces. So I don't know why she's constantly appealing to the protection of the labour force. The government of the Republic of Croatia protects workers as such whether it is domestic, whether it is foreign when there are not enough domestic workers. Our regulations apply equally to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12366	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12367	... where we have taken over means a European legislation which was just intended to protect domestic labour by equating under the same conditions means working stops and domestic labour forces. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] This avoids the exploitation of foreign labour, while avoiding the reduction of wages to domestic labour. In that sense, this amendment, which I have proposed, is exactly the same way that we have taken over the European legislation where Denmark and Germany protect the price of their labour force in our context. It said that minimum wage is needed, so any worker who comes to Germany and Denmark should have minimum wage secured by a collective contract. Since our minimum wage is too low it's actually the average salary should be minimum wage with us, I've put the mean average salary in the branch. In this way, a reduction in the labour price would be avoided, means compensation for the work carried out by a foreign worker is guaranteed, according to the amendment to the foreign worker at the level of the average wage in the branch in which the foreign worker came to carry out the work. They are exempt from this, so it can't include travel, food and accommodation costs or pension funds etc., so that amendment went exactly what you proposed to us here the other day, and it was listed in the Law on Guidance where it was portrayed as well as the European acquis, where we have one criterion where we paint this European working gain, the legal gain, and we have other criteria when we have our so-called so-called. our laws. In that sense, I insist on this amendment and I will ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12368	20th Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12369	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant's intensities that, in addition to the need for legal action to be acted legally both in haste and in the best interests of the party seeking a particular, specific service in front of the authorities of the state administration. So it's absolutely acceptable, but it will allow for this law. So, although a two-step process of hiring a foreign workforce is imagined, I assure you that the Croatian employer will not wait longer than is necessary for this approval. The other reasons for the non-acceptance have already been given in the light of Amendment No 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12370	In the name of the club, respected representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12371	Thank you very much. As we asked for a vote on Amendment 14. So we ask for a vote on Amendment 20. That is two amendments that are interlinked. Dear Secretary of State, you don't have to convince us anything. So there are certain experiences and there are certain situations where we've already been through it. There, in 1986, some special conditions were introduced in another law for the first time by the investor. And then the idea was to collect the body of the state administration that was then. Then at one point it was realized that it was not good but that it was better for the investor to collect it himself. Several times it changed the small body of the state administration, a small investor. The experience that we have from some other laws is that it is always better and faster that the one who is interested in getting rid of it has the ability to collect as much documentation as possible, that it is faster, that it is more effective, that it is in his interest, and that when it is entrusted to the body of the state administration, therefore, regardless of when I speak to the body of the state administration, I think of both the ministries and the county offices and all other facilities, it is more effective and these are the experiences we have. You only in the process have given your officers yet to write another memo, send and wait. It won't be faster, it won't be more effective, it's always slower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12372	The 21st amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12373	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. Therefore, it is prescribed that the number of employees who are nationals of the Republic of Croatia or nationals of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation in the employer should not be less than 1/4 of the total staff. The proposer considers that this ratio is sufficient protection mechanism for the number of domestic and foreign workers in the employer, that is, the minimum, they can be 30 and 50 and 70%, and the remainder, if it is not possible to settle from the domestic labour market, the employer will obtain, in accordance with the provisions of this law, through the employment of third-country nationals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12374	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12375	Well, yes, I think it's really scary how to say no, that the employer has an obligation, of course, that he can have more employees who are not from the economic space of the EU or Croatia, but you've put a limit here and the rule that he must have at least 1/4 workers, so we put at least half of the workers here to be from Croatia or from the European Economic Area. So is the European Economic Area labour market of over 200 million workers not large enough to ensure that at least 50% of workers are needed by each employer. Is it possible that's the case? That we need to import labour and we can't put that employer must have at least 50% of domestic employees. So he will have 1.2 workers from Croatia, and the other will import as much as he wants. No more quotas, no more restrictions, he formally just needs to contact HZZ who will answer for the construction that there are not enough workers at what price he offers and after that he can do whatever he wants. And so only now did they have mainly from Serbia and Northern Macedonia, BiH construction workers, neither were labour rights respected, but also the labour price itself, this will now be just a formalized exploitation. So we didn't do anything to arrange for these workers to be better working conditions, because of course, if we had arranged these working conditions, if we had to put the average salary in the defence of construction, then we would have actually abolished the need for these foreign workers and therefore we didn't do it, but at the same time, we are quite hypocritically accessing and accepting the EU legislative framework in which it stands for a Danish and German worker. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12376	22nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12377	The government accepts this amendment. HZZ is a public institution whose primary task is to intervene in employment and this institution has data on labour market developments. The Management Board of the Institute is designated as the body responsible for the decision on interests for which the employer is not obliged to request the implementation of the labour market test. The consultation with the social partners when making this decision is therefore not considered necessary, especially since the representatives of the social partners are also members of the board of directors, so that they can make a measurement decision when preparing and adopting this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12378	Thank you. On behalf of the counsel club, no one, we'll have to vote on it. So we're going to the 23rd Amendment of Representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12379	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The proposed concept of employment of third country nationals guarantees priority protection of domestic labour, but also respects the needs of employers. For this reason, it is provided for a decision on the interests for which the employer is not obliged to request the implementation of the labour market test. That decision will be taken by the Governing Council of the HZZ, respecting the situation in the national, regional and local labour market as regards the number and structure of unemployed persons and the need for certain economic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12380	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12381	Well, apart from the fact that you have abolished quotas and now means employers can import labour as much as they practically want you have completely abolished the labour market test for certain interests, meaning agriculture, forestry, catering and tourism do not even need a labour market test. So an employer who wants to hire a cheap labour side should not even be on the labour market asking if anyone would come forward for this interest in the low price they would offer. Of course there will always be someone who will hire for a lower salary. So what there was some intensity here to ensure that the conditions for all workers, you had one of the SDPs to say an affirmative amendment to at least move from agriculture this provision, so if you've already set that provision for catering, for forestry it's unclear why you've set it up for agriculture where you can have some kind of seasonal fruit selection situation, etc. or some extraordinary situations where employers are forced to do so, because when you have a labour shortage, then you actually force the employer to raise the labour price especially in those sectors where it is not about the employer being able to give a higher labour price than the lower labour price account, and you did not accept that amendment either. So you reject the order of the amendment that even in this framework of yours that I think is so bad that it's not possible to correct it, so I went with the amendments that are actually returning items from the past law, meaning at least the quota, because the quotas were some kind of framework that would allow us to save our domestic labour from such exploitation and actually forced immigration, because lowering the labour price is forced immigration. People for these salaries can't live in Croatia, they didn't go out because tourist impressions. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12382	Next, the 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12383	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. Article 16 Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment in the status of seasonal workers are prescribed that the Member States must facilitate the re-entry of a seasonal worker who has at least once been granted a residence permit for the past 5 years regardless of whether he has worked code, whether he will now work with the same or new employer. So if that, that is, if we accepted it we would actually be contrary to the directive and this would contribute nothing, no new benefit to seasonal workers. I must say more when seasonal workers are concerned that this directive particularly protects them in matters of their residence and living conditions because it has been observed that in many Member States seasonal workers are the most exploited in terms of living under inadequate conditions, sleeping and staying in inadequate conditions and this Directive has been implemented in Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12384	On behalf of the counsel club? No one, we're gonna have to vote on that. 25th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12385	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The quota system currently in force also pointed to shortcomings in the planning of the implementation and control of the employment of third-country nationals, and therefore the government proposes a new employment model that will be more effective than labour market needs. It is here, and in the reasoning of these amendments, it has been shown several times again, several times inaccuracies, untrues. So, the main newspaper in this law is the implementation of the labour market test to protect the Croatian workforce, which means those who have conditions and want to work on certain jobs. Secondly, what is very important is that they will examine in detail the regularity of employers' business in order to reduce possible abuses and enable labour markets and labour rights to be protected. In particular, it is pointed out that this law provides for an exception to the implementation of the labour market and obtaining the HZZ opinion exclusively for the employment of seasonal workers for up to 90 days, respecting this specificity and seasonal character of certain activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12386	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12387	Let's solve the problem then why the labour market test is not the protection of Croatian workers, to maybe explain it a little bit, as you say it is inaccuracy. Asking the labour market if there is, whether there is a workforce that wants to work for such miserable fees and then get a negative answer about the fact that there is no workforce that wants to work for such miserable benefits that are not enough to live on is not a protection of work or workers. So it's just a state-of-the-art. So you will find that for these fees, no one in Croatia wants to do what we know, so in the building we know that people go to work on baustel because they can't live off those salaries they would get paid, which they would get in Croatia for that work. Therefore, ask the market and get a negative answer and then claim that there is no labour force is not protecting Croatian workers. There may indeed be a lack of workforce somewhere, but there would be a labour force somewhere if we could raise the labour price. So our labour price is 37% of the salary of a Western European worker. We have one of the lowest employment rates. We've been evicted by 14% of the working population. In just one year, 90% of our contracts were signed for a certain time. So our working conditions are absolutely exploitable, and then often the prime minister boasts that the number of employees has grown, yes, but where did we start? These are complete manipulations of statistics and your labour market, so the labour market test will send you that answer in such a way that no one wants to work for that money, but you did not protect our employee in this way. If you wanted to protect him then you should have implemented that legislative framework that you defended here in the assembly the other day, which is the legislative framework for the implementation of European laws, the Law on Reference, so I will ask to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12388	26th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12389	The amendment is not accepted. Although this is therefore a new amendment, I have to look back only if I did not defend the Law on Posting Workers, the MP has already pointed out several times, she said in a debate on the final proposal of the Foreign Law and now again several times. So, that law is, was defended by some other representatives of the motion. So this amendment is not accepted, the reasons and the reasons are similar to that for not accepting Amendment No 15, and again I wonder if you only advocate higher salaries and the rights of foreign workers or all workers. The government of the Republic of Croatia advocates the equality of both domestic and foreign workers when a foreign worker arrives, but until a foreign worker comes in, it is up to the Croatian worker to get a job and be protected at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12390	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12391	Well, when I thought you proposed that law, I didn't mean you personally, but the government did, if you understood it that way, I apologize, so your government, your superiors represented this law here, maybe you're not personally. As to whether or not someone is protected by the Workers' Front and I, which workforce, and who is protected by HDZ and your Government, if you really wanted to protect our workforce and as you say you would give them equal rights as means to domestic workers and foreign workers equal rights, then give them equal benefits for work. Take the average salary in one branch, which was the amendment that I proposed and equalized the wages, if you equate the wages and give in one branch the same salary will be less those who come from outside to work for a lower, much lower salary than the average, but that would not, of course, protect the excessive price of our workforce because the average wage is low. That's why I was talking about the Law on References because there is enough there to put minimum wage in Denmark and Germany that must be provided for both foreign and domestic workers in order to actually avoid lowering labour prices and importing foreign labour. But it's pure demagogy when you say we protect both foreign and domestic workers, because when you put the same pay in the brand, you actually protect the domestic worker. I think as much as you say you're protecting both domestic and foreign workers, but by equating wages, the need to import the workforce that Germany and Denmark have done and the EU at all, the rich countries of the centre with their legislative framework, when they put the rule that there should be equal pay, at least minimum wage, and according to a collective contract in a particular branch, they cover it with collective contracts 90%, with us much lower than that. What we need and want to implement as the protection of workers is really the protection of both domestic and foreign workers, but that means equating wages in the industry. I demand a vote on that amendment. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12392	Thank you. 27th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12393	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The Republic of Croatia is in the market economy, so here we are in favour of the market economy established by the Constitution and our regulations and cannot be, the government cannot determine which salary the employer will pay to the worker, but the Government creates competitive conditions for the development of the economy and thus raise wages and generally better lives for workers and all others. The Directive on the status of third-country nationals with long-term residence has prescribed that third-country nationals must have the means to abstain. So, this, this amendment is very inaccurate, so it talks about people who are weaker material status. The weaker the material status, and we know that other provisions of this law prescribe and that a stranger must have the means to support the Republic of Croatia, whether by his work or through members of his family. Therefore, if granted, a person of weaker material status would not be able to meet the other conditions for granting a stay, especially the next step, the approval of a long-term residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12394	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12395	Thank you. You see life takes place between what, those first permits and then the next permits or extensions. Therefore, difficult material status can occur in the meantime. What we said was that any difficult material status should not actually be an obstacle to the possibility of learning Croatian. So language learning is in the interest of all of us, it is in our interest that everyone who comes to the Republic of Croatia learns Croatian so that they can integrate better into society. We don't want strangers to be ghettoized, we don't want to create an environment where we'll have a part of the population that we won't be able to communicate with, because communication is a prerequisite for integration and mutual understanding. So we're one of the countries that, and that's exactly what I've been doing for a long time, and I've been comparing how much we stand out for it, which is the least unique thing for learning the language of foreigners who come to the Republic of Croatia. The program that we had that Croaticum was so basic that, of course, people couldn't even learn Croatian in that time, nor did we allow them, for example, to learn Croatian language in the profession, along with the profession, etc., on which we could actually engage an additional number of people and employ an additional number of people, who we have extra in the labour market. So that's what we're looking for if the person is not weaker material status, not the moment he enters the Republic of Croatia because then he's looking for a check of these conditions rather than in the meantime. It can happen that someone loses their job, any other situation can happen, and for this reason we ask that it be recognised in the acquisition of any rights and social rights in particular and that not only is the interest of that stranger, but is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And you will surely agree with me that it is in our interest that people who come here learn Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12396	You're looking for a vote, aren't you? 28th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12397	The amendment is not accepted. The ministry responsible for social policy affairs always participates in the return procedure when it is in accordance with the rules governing social care affairs, or in vulnerable groups, and in particular under the protocol on the treatment of unaccompanied children adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a refreshed protocol two years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12398	Honorable representative Bencic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12399	Yes, I thank you, that's true, welfare centres when it comes to unaccompanied children taking part in the process and that's good. What we have and, in fact, as activists for years, warned that the entire system from acceptance to integration was placed on the MUP. And we believe that this is too much burden for the MUP and that other actors in certain areas of action all from acceptance to integration or possibly the distances of foreigners from the state must participate proportionately to what their share is and what is in line with their competences and their competences. For example, when it comes to setting softer measures, we believe that indeed, it is a benign, benign proposal to at least consult with the ministry responsible for performing social care activities, not only when it comes to vulnerable groups but precisely so that it could be detected whether someone, although by default, does not belong to a vulnerable group in one of the particularly vulnerable situations and whether it should be applied to a minor measure. We think it's another ministry's job, and that's how it's done, and some form of checks and balances that don't always go beyond what the MUP thinks, but also contributes to a better division, division of burdens, that's what we think. We're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12400	29th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12401	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. In fact, Article 220 of the final draft of the law stipulates that, if the conditions for accommodation are no longer met, a third-country national will be fired without delay from the centre. During the expiry of the period fixed by the decision on the accommodation of a foreigner, accommodation must therefore be fired from the centre independently of the duration of the administrative dispute or other judicial control of the legality of the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12402	In the name of the club, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12403	Yes, therefore, but we have suggested this article is that when a stranger is still in the centre, and the administrative court does not respect the deadlines because it is instructive deadlines then we believe that automation should stop accommodation in the open-ended centre because it is a restriction of freedom of movement as a fundamental human right and it is also necessary to determine the consequences of missing deadlines by administrative courts. So why did we mention this? Not because this is how it occurred to us, but because for years we have watched it for us who have been protecting human rights people who have been in those centers. So, we saw that people and we made sure that in practice situations took place that administrative courts decided on claims of restrictions on movement and after several months, so they were even known situations that the court had not decided throughout the accommodation of third-country nationals in the centre i.e. until the expiry of the time specified by the detention of third-country nationals in the centre or until the enforcement of the forced distance of third-country nationals. So, we know ourselves how long such procedures can last, there has indeed been excessive detention in the centre of the closed type, and in the end you are also aware that there is also a practice of the European Court of Human Rights which we are obliged to implement not only when it comes to cases against the Republic of Croatia but also when it comes to cases against other countries because the European Convention so-called. a living instrument she lives through her decisions, not just the letter of the convention. And we think that this, the way we've arranged this is not in accordance with the convention provisions. We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12404	The next amendment is number 30. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12405	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment because it is nomotechnically governing the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12406	It's becoming an integral part. 31st Amendment to the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12407	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. By applying the Foreigning Law, we can thus say the only act that sort of regulates matters of legal migration and immigration in the finality of the Republic of Croatia. So it includes the conditions of entry, stay, work, possibility of staying for family integration, education, scientific research, and is also seeking some conditions that actually enable the integration of third-country nationals into the Republic of Croatia. All this has an impact on other aspects of society as a whole, and the promoter believes that the adoption of immigration policy could be more comprehensively monitored by immigration flows and obtained by those third-country nationals, those future citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whom this country needs for demographic, economic and other reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12408	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12409	Thank you very much. We'll ask for a vote on this amendment. So we absolutely think and support that this country should have a clear and defined immigration policy. It is in the public debate that there is a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. There's at least one two, three places that talk about immigration and things like that. Therefore, the place where immigration policy will be defined, where it will be defined all together, is a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and then individual elements will be in this law. What you're doing now in one place has made it a little bit easier, but in another place you've left the same. So, in the context of which documents exactly bring immigration policy on the strategy and immigration policy into the development strategy, and it will therefore make a decision again, and through this on the one hand you have abolished the quotas, but on the other hand here you are returning the quotas in a vague, untransparent way. So, in the development strategy, there must be immigration policy and part of that development strategy for Croatia and development in certain areas and everything else, and not in this law where you're actually at a small door right now, you're putting it back again. Therefore, as I was saying at the outset, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12410	32nd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12411	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, and the reasons for not accepting it are the same as for not accepting Amendment 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12412	In the name of the club, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12413	Thank you. Yes, we have here suggested erasing penalties for carriers because we have proposed of course and to delete the article that establishes their responsibility, so it is related to it. However, this is our last amendment, so I'm going to use this remaining time just to send some important message. Not only the Foreign Law but our entire migration policy package and the way we're putting ourselves around the arrival of foreigners is extremely closed conservative, and on the other hand it's quite exploitable. So we only look at foreigners and the arrival of foreigners like, through two categories, one of these tourists that are passing, the other are potential workers. We have never created a migration policy that would valorise both our values and the values of people who come to the Republic of Croatia and open up space in fact for common development, exchange and promotion and culture through some cultural dialogue. This is evident from the fact that we do not have integration policy and it is a danger and we have been warning for years that the most dangerous fact is that you have on one hand the acceptance and the arrival of people we welcome and it is good, if they live here and work on equal terms as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, if you do not have integration policies that will allow for inclusion in Croatian society then we can experience situations that other Western countries have seen, which are the ghettoisation of foreigners, it is in fact alienation from the community in which they live, but the community that accepts it, so the Republic of Croatia against them. That's not what we want. We want our society to be cohesive, that it's solidarity and we want it to be because when laws like this are passed that we are in the package that we know from the beginning, so from the arrival of a person to its full integration that we are doing completely. This is how we do the dotted changes that can really cost us in the long run. We're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12414	And the last 33rd Amendment of the IP, Smart and Glass Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12415	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, since no amendment number 31 relating to Article 246 is accepted, and therefore this amendment cannot be accepted either. The government of the Republic of Croatia will propose to the Croatian Parliament as prescribed by this law of the principle of immigration policy, which will be comprehensive, coherent, which will include the rules of integration policy and thus enable the Republic and the Croatian economy to gain the necessary workforce, but also citizens as full members of our society who will feel well here and who, together with Croatian citizens, will contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12416	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12417	Thank you very much. As we asked for a vote on all other amendments, we are also asking for a vote on this amendment. Every time a law is passed, meaning and purpose need to be known. Therefore, the purpose and goal is for Croatia to not only be a friend to its citizens but also be acceptable to the arrival of foreigners who will stay here, work and live later. It's not just one element, there's a few elements to take care of. As already explained by the amendment, or when I explained Amendment 31, we have a public debate, which I think is a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia by December 12th. In the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia it should be that, immigration policy and one of the elements. We need to know what kind of country we want to be in 2030 or 2050, which are jobs, what are the comparative advantages we have, what we want with that country. Therefore, the place for immigration policy is the place in this strategy which will and will be in the public debate and which will be in this assembly, and the Law on Foreigners is one of the tools that we will create. We must not make mistakes that some other countries have had to repeat. So some other countries have indeed been acceptable to the arrival of foreigners, but only as one of the interstates on their way to some other EU countries that will offer them other benefits than we do. So, if we want to be acceptable to the arrival of foreigners we need to know what the workforce we need, we need to know how we're developing society at all, we need to have both elements and housing and education and everything else, but that's in the strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia, so it's certainly not this strategy, nor this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u12418	Thank you. So we've finished discussing the amendments, and now we're going to take a break to clear the hall for up to 1 hour. And in 1 hour we will continue with the views of clubs or independent representatives. It's 12.31 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16046	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. Please, is that my colleague Bencic? Comrade Bencic, please take your place. Yeah. It's not very polite, but okay, have a seat. We move forward with the work, continue with statements on amendments to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2021 and the projection of the '22 plan. and '23. With us is State Secretary, Honored Tomislav Mihotić, please take your place. It is the 41st Amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16047	I would like to thank President HS, the esteemed parliamentary representatives. The amendment is not accepted. Archaeological research is currently being conducted, and will continue to take further action on the Vukovar bypass planned with dynamics after completion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16048	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16049	Thank you. Well, as I said in the amendment, I believe that the town of Vukovar deserves to have a bypass is the only city on the move from Ilock to Varazdin which has no bypass and which is truly extremely necessary since dense and primarily cross-border traffic takes place almost through the very center of the city of Vukovar. Here, given that archaeological research is under way, I believe that this will be over as soon as possible, but here I am still asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16050	We're going to Amendment 42 to MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16051	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of project documentation by building a bridge that will connect the island of Pasman to the mainland. There is no study documentation that would indicate the justification of the project of transition to the island of Pasman, and therefore the Croatian road company in the period from '21. Until '23. does not plan funds for this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16052	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16053	Here we go with the amendments. Yesterday the opposition gave 300 amendments, the MOST Club gave about 160 amendments. You reject them all, all of them are amendment secretaries, and also citizens who listen, who are for the benefit of our citizens from Ilock to Vukovar, but they all refuse without the presence of any representative from the ruling majority. Here's one more time I'd say no one's here before I explain the amendment. This is about the island of Pasman, which is isolated, and for years now people from that island have been struggling to have some kind of connection with the rest of the world, you are clearly refusing to do so. I don't see any reason why you're doing this to Dalmatia, the Dalmatia you forgot, the guy you forgot, we've been giving amendments to the Dalmatian Zagora, for the road dates that life means, you reject them. We gave up, I gave a personal amendment to the Cetinski end with a fast road on the highway that would essentially be a vessel of housewives for the survival of people in the area. Everything you've done, every project you've ever done, is essentially to slow down traffic and decapitate people in that area. No road in those areas has no life. The reasons for your refusal of the opposition amendments are unclear, but it is clear to me when I see that no MP from this 9th constituency is here, neither from like, from most, from Dalmatia, nor from Split-Dalmatia County, nor from Sibenik-Kninska, nor from Zadar. Well, this is sad, not even the mayors and the mayors. from these areas. [[Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, thank you very much.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16054	I'll keep them informed of what you suggested. They must be watching this one on TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16055	No, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16056	I'm saying I'm going to inform them about what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16057	This is the president more embarrassing, and so is your danger to talk about the budget... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16058	It's a shame you call people, so not all of your deputies are here. Please don't do this because it's not correct. They're not obliged here to listen to your amendments, they can listen to them and they don't have to listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16059	And I have the right to say what I want, I don't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16060	And it's not fair for you to call people here, there isn't, because tomorrow they're going to call you, and I'm going to stand up for you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16061	I do, so none of them are parliamentary representatives here, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16062	Their right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16063	Not even yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16064	It's their right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16065	It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16066	Here's an amendment to the 43rd of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16067	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes the provision of funds to regulate and secure crossings across railway lines, railway crossings in the Kaštel area. As far as the Croatian roads are concerned, they have built and the completion of the Castelan road section is under way where all railway road crossings have been deniveled. Through the HZ-Infrastructure programme, rail road crossing arrangements will take care of the Kaštel area and the unregulated crossings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16068	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16069	The arrangement of crossing railways in Kaštel is dangerous places in traffic where people fear for the lives of themselves and their children and the uncertainty of traffic in this area is signifiable and visible. Kaštela is the second city in Split-Dalmatia County in size, has about 60,000 inhabitants and I see no reason why they wash their hands, and you state secretaries are from that area. And once again to point out that I'm sorry. I see no reason why we do not communicate on amendments and... amendments to listen to opposition proposals, to know tomorrow what they will vote on the budget. So at this point we're talking about amendments that are significant in this case for Kaštel, a very significant amendment, traffic safety and people are important. So we gave the amendments from Prevlaka to Vukovar, for all areas we gave. There is no area of social people to be helped, we have given everyone the opportunity to correct this budget, but they do not want to hear it. Tomorrow they'll vote against this, and they won't even know what they're voting on. That is why it is visible from this debate now on the amending budget that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the last term were wrong, is that here fellow MPs at least would have heard from someone if the Drniš amendment was Drniš Mayor, if it was from Vodice it would have been the former mayor, at least they would have heard about what it was and what it would be voted on. That's why I'm asking for the Castlean problem to be voted on on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16070	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you not to call other agents. So, you're not even being listened to by your party colleagues, so nobody mentions it. There are no representatives from many parties here, there are very few MPs from others, but it is not the duty for MPs to sit here and listen to the amendment's promoters. Don't make an impression in public that someone here is wrong because yesterday all day and today you've been explaining your amendments, it's all right, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it's not fair to keep calling those who aren't here because I repeat it's not their duty. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16071	Infringement of Rules of Procedure. In 238, you can't tell me what I'm going to say if I'm sorry again, you've hurt an ankle. 238, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues here and it's embarrassing that there are no colleagues, and my club was all here yesterday all five of whom were present here possibly, even five of us at one point were, we even hurt the Rules of Procedure because there were no other parliamentary representatives. So once again embarrassing... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16072	Thank you. Now once again, the Club of Representatives of the Most Hurts the Rules of Procedure because here you are, as far as I can see four, and there must be two of you in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16073	There'll be four of us because there's no MPs here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16074	Now we're gonna take a 15-minute break and we're gonna move on when we get the working conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16075	Which you're about to throw us out for epidemiological measures, and none of your agents are here. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16076	Comrade Bulj, please do not shout... /The speakers speak at the same time./... I took a break, you can leave the hall, two of you can be from the Representatives' Club, that's what we'll stick to. Well, then we won't work until you move. [[And yesterday there were five of us.]] I'll give you a warning and then at some point you'll have to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16077	But the respected here should be 41 parliamentary representatives, since there are no reasons for not seeing them, and our amendments... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16078	But the respected here should be 41 parliamentary representatives, since there are no reasons for not seeing them, and our amendments... /The speakers speak at the same time./... It's 9:41 a.m. I would like to ask first that the representatives be here as much as they belong to clubs, so I see that there are too many representatives of the Sovereignists and too many representatives from the Bridge, so please leave to be number two Mosta one Sovereignist. If you don't, I'll start giving warnings in a way that goes one, the other, the third, the fourth, and that in the end you can't attend two days of debates that I wouldn't want. I ask you to move to your seats first this doesn't belong to you, this is not your bench you know very well, as well as colleagues Zekanovic, Milanović litre so you have your seats, these are not your places. So there's no discussion until it happens... He can't, not like this so I'll do it again now... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, first you'll leave the hall then I'll give you a break. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's not argue like this. You must be two from the Bridge and one from the Sovereignist. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a 10 break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16080	Here, dear citizens, look, there's no one from the HDZ, we're being forced out of the assembly to discuss the budget of the Republic of Croatia. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16081	I beg you now I will be forced to give you notices with the exclusion from work today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16082	Where are your deputies while we discuss the budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16083	That doesn't have anything to do with a colleague of the Grmoi. I said my last time. [[It's 9:52 a.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:59 A.M.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16085	Your Honor, Mr. President, I must say that I do not accept and accept the behavior that you have imposed on me for the last half hour in HS because you have unprincipledly defended these empty 16 chairs, and your duty in the assembly is not to represent one side or the other regardless of which party you came from. At the same time, I have more [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Vrkljan]] You interrupted me before I finished [[Intruder: You don't]] But time was still on my side [[Intruder: No, 30 seconds]] But you continue to exert violence. [[Intruder: No, time is up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16086	Come on, sit down, please. Don't let us play the video for 30 seconds. Let's see what happened. Have a seat. So, I wasn't defending the position, so please sit down and let me explain. I did not defend the position of the ruling, I defended the position of every MP because it may happen that there will be no MP from the Homeland Movement and then they will call from the HDZ, so there will be no you, so there will be no SDP at some point as there is no enough of them now, so you will call them. It's not just correct. No, it's not an obligation, it's not an obligation, you all know it very well, an advocate to sit down while the amendments are being explained. So, I was very correct. We didn't leave the night debate, we could have this all going on in the morning until 3 a.m. yesterday. We didn't. We gave it to you in the morning and you can go to the public who's following your amendments. I think that's correct. Now you're still asking for MPs to be there to listen to you that aren't mandatory, I don't think it's fair, I don't think it's fair. So for this reason, I set myself up in this way because you have the right and opportunity to explain your amendments to the public. And I gave you a chance to make it happen in the morning, not in the nighttime as it used to happen. My colleague Bulj, also, I don't know, he was also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16087	I've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16088	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16089	So, all day long yesterday and today, there is not a single representative of the ruling majority. Not all of them must be present, but none of them should be present, and you should call on us for epidemiological measures in an empty assembly, so Croatian citizens are looking at this, this is an insult to common sense that you do not give us those who want to participate in the punishment and those who receive the wages and do not come to their place of work to reward them. We're not gonna kick it, we're gonna find a way face this kind of leadership [[Intruder: Thank you]] Session HS. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16090	So you have the right to say that, too. However, the number of MPs in the assembly is also bound to large parties and they can also when you do not sit in your seat, so imagine... Just a little bit, so imagine when there's no HDZ, so you sit there with the SDP, and when there's no SDP, the HDZ sits down. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, you're a club that's got a little less MPs and it's... But let's not throw ourselves at each other right now, I let you say, so let me go too. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, I have to defend the number as far as we agreed at the presidency, it wasn't my own self-will, it was the presidency's agreement on epidemiological measures, and I'm holding on to it. Citizens will see that someone has or is not and will therefore draw certain conclusions. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you were a colleague of Zekanovic, you asked for a break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16091	Stanku.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16092	Stanku. Same break, right? We've got a colleague of the Bulls. More injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16093	President HS, you insult Rules of Procedure 238. During the debate on amendments and the interpretation of amendments, I as the parliamentary representative who gave himself the 70th Amendment, my club 160, let me explain the amendment in accordance with what I think is still an effort to write these amendments and of course the citizens want to hear what we are saying. So don't meddle in my explanation of the amendment to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16094	Okay, I'll let you speak as you wish from now on, but be aware that it will happen to you on the other hand and she will also let you go. So it's also my duty to defend some, some behaviors that are fair and correct and to warn those who are not, and often there are no representatives from other clubs and then we'll be faced with calling each other when we're gone. Well, if that's what you want, you'll see it's not good. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16095	So, I can't answer you, I can only on behalf of the MOST Club say this, always have us and call us when we're gone. And this measure you've given us of two MPs we always meet. Give us more room, there'll be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16096	For that you have to get enough seats in the election, it's not up to me, you know that very well. ... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16097	We got 2 more, and you just give us to be 2, and you're not coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16098	Okay. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic. You asked for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16099	Dear President HS, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. I have to point out here one extremely large illogicality regarding the implementation of epidemiological measures in HS. It is not logical that the HDZ can only infect the HDZ or Croatian sovereign exclusively Croatian sovereign. As far as I know, and I suppose you know, the coronary virus can be obtained regardless of party membership. These measures that we have in HS are identical to those that we have in restaurants or cafes only women or only men, only those with blond hair, not those with black hair, only blue eyes, and not those with brown eyes. So, if the maximum we can have in the Croatian Parliament is 40 people, 40 MPs, then it has to be 40 regardless of party belongings, because as far as I know, and I suppose you know, the coronaryvirus spreads regardless of party membership. The SDP can also infect the HDZ and the HDZ's SDP's. Please allow all MPs who want to be in Croatian, in the assembly to be in the assembly no matter which party they belong to because this doesn't make sense. And I will also point to the situation that there are 0 in the assembly right now of 16 possible HDZ representatives and of the SDP, if I am not mistaken, two. So, while here are my colleagues from MOST and we here are the Croatian Sovereignists and the Homeland Movement I see that we are the maximum number of representatives, how many we have and IDS here's what I have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16100	Comrade Zekanovic, of course I will approve the break, of course you are here because you are interested, especially those who have their amendments. However, this is an agreement with the presidency, we have formed five other halls in which all MPs who wish to sit, it was the Bureau's agreement and it is the duty to respect this agreement. What you're proposing would lead us to chaos because I can't catch who's at what point the party from where, there are places that belong to certain parties, they can sit on them or not sit. This is dimensional for the number when it is high, when it is the most, when it is not their right it is also so that it does not sit there, and every MP at this moment has the possibility to sit not in the central hall but in all those halls that we agreed on because such was the agreement of the Presidency because such was the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm asking you to hold on to that. Please welcome fellow Miletic and you have a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16101	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic and the esteemed Mr. Bukarica I would like to try to ask you this way if it is possible to find one solution that indeed all of those parliamentary representatives who wish to be here in this honorable home in the Croatian Parliament not in some local halls, if at all possible, and then when someone comes, we will appear from the ruling ones here from MOST neatly stand up to go to some local hall. That would stick to all the epidemiological measures, 41 MPs here in the assembly. What concerns me, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, was here yesterday more than 13.5 hours of Petrov, Grmoja, Kujundzic, Bulj and I were here, no one told us anything. There was a colleague named Sanader here, after him, a colleague of Reiner, no one told us anything, Mr. Jandrokovic, and we sat here for 13 hours, we could yesterday, and today we can't. What's the real deal? What kind of responsibility is that? What kind of behavior is this from your side towards us? So, yesterday Petrov, Grmoja, Bulj, Kujundzic, Miletic can, and today can't, we'll drive you out. 300 amendments were proposed by the opposition, some 150, 160 amendments only to us from the Most for Slavonia, for Lika, for Dalmatia, for Zagreb, here I come from Rijeka, for my Rijeka, everything is rejected. And all right, that's your right. Is it possible that at least a higher degree of collegiation is shown to allow everyone here who wants to be in the assembly to be there? Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16102	Thank you, colleague Miletic, it is not my will, it is the decision of the Croatian Parliament Presidency and the article of the Rules of Procedure. So yesterday it's my colleagues' failure, I'll talk to them, I didn't know it at all. So if that's how it was, I don't know it, but it doesn't mean it's gonna be and it's okay. It's their fault, their failure, they didn't simply follow the Rules of Procedure. So, no, it's not possible that I'm going to arrange this for the other presidents if it happened yesterday it was a mistake. Because it can't happen because it would cause chaos and chaos. We have created conditions for all MPs to attend the sessions because we have expanded this central assembly to other premises, so there are five more halls, all those who want to participate can be in these halls, if there is not enough room, their clubs if they do not have enough room in this assembly. So, please don't ask me to act against the Rules of Procedure, and what happened yesterday if that was the case was a mistake and it won't happen again. Now I'm giving a break from 10 minutes to 10 and 20 and I'm asking you to move on with your work because today we have the Executive Law and I think it's in the interest of all of us both the ruling and the opposition to discuss it in a quality way and for the citizens to see it. Thank you very much. 10:11 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:20 A.M.]] It is now the 44th Amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridges. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16104	... parts of the Obrovac-Krushevo road. [[Specially enabled.]] The Croatian road company Obrovac-Kruševo is maintained through a regular maintenance programme and the said section is safe for traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16105	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16106	Here I expected the area of the Ovrovca i.e. Krusheva is one of the symbols of the defence of the Republic of Croatia on that part of 2,500 m, 2.5 km of roads are being taken since it is so hilly, since often because of the Maslenica Bridge of closure it is used is devastated and I think this investment of half a million kuna is minimum to make that road to those people living in the area. There are fewer people in the hunting area, in the Krushev area, so I don't know why you rejected this amendment because it's an amendment that's worth half a million kuna. I expected you to accept because of these people in this area who deserve a minimum quality of life in Zadar. They're areas where they don't, first they're evicted, second they don't even have water supply in certain areas, and now this road is very important to them, this section, and mostly I repeat when they're blowing a heavy storm and when we have problems then and rainy weather that road is literally impervious. Here again I would say that I am saddened by why you reject the amendments in this way, I am saddened that the MPs all the time from that area absolutely do not want to hear, tomorrow they will vote on this, and most of them are from that area of the 9th constituency, which they do not at least hear which amendment. And that's why there's been business changes in the past term because at the same time we're having a debate on the amendment and voting, but it wasn't, of course, because it was going to change the rules of procedure to cloud the fact that we didn't know who it was that voted. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this very important for the Obrovac Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16107	We're going to the 45th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16108	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the road and foot-and-mouth disease in the area of Sinj and Hrvatska from Obrovc Sinjsko-Han via Bajagić to Panj, the said stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16109	Here's your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16110	As far as Sinj and the roads are concerned, this road has a part of it and a problem with the extradition, so in the area of Bajagić is narrowed down. Of course it is not in the authority of the Croatian roads, but it is the County roads that absolutely do nothing but in pre-election time pave people and beg them to the dice where the chickens are. The only thing we can see to get votes and agree these people with asphalt, and from these parts people move out. And these are serious things through Bajagic, Obrovac according to Panj is a populated place, so that share of Han, Bajagic towards Panj is a populated place and there’s a triba to be a foothold, there’s a triba to allow to rule out part of that road where people oppose, di people protest. However, you reject the key amendments to the Cetinski region, key ones such as the fast road, the infrastructure fast road Križice-Kukuzovac that ate the housewives. And what you did about the flow of roads where it was supposed to be more flow-streaming in the centre of the town of Sinj, where we have on the part of a merger of state roads two state roads from the direction of Glavica from the direction of Split-Sinj in the centre of the town of Sinj, you have made a circular flow without a traveler where schools, trade chains, the city center is slowing down traffic. You all make Croatian roads by washing your hands towards the counties which are your own purpose, you have absolutely blocked traffic. So accept my proposal and this one and make sure we have an underpass in Sinj on the D1 and fast road, that's the key things for the Sinj and the Cetinski end. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16111	We're going to the 46th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16112	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the state road D1 on the move from Sinj to Vrlika. The activities are under way on several subdivisions of the state road D1 between Vrlika and Sinj. The public procurement process is under way for the reconstruction of the state road D1 through the Vrlika 0,7 km length, the works on the recovery of unstable cuts on the Vrlika-Satrić stock in length of 7 km to 11 positions. The purchase plan provides for the negotiation of the works of the extraordinary maintenance of the asphalt stake of the Maljkovo-Perec subdivision of 6.3 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16113	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16114	The D1 section of the road is the busiest Zagreb-Split and in this area, mainly in the area where we speak area with Peru, when we speak from Maljkovo, Podravlje-Maljkovo all the way up to the Vrlica itself by the lake we have such bandages which are very dangerous which are in the shadows and then we have to look for a way and there is an accident in that area between Vrlika i.e. I'm going to promote we have to iron that road and I think this amount is minor to these 20 million kunas, because that road is an alternative to the highway. Because of the cost of the highway, people often use the state road D1 and it is very important for Vrlika, Vrlika is forgotten, the proximity of Sinja is very important because the administrative seat of Sinj Cetinski region is still and will, of course, be the city of Sinj because of this, due to the proximity of both Vrlika and Split, we have a problem that we do not have in the court more municipal court, which we do not have in Sinj municipal court than for many, for example. they must go to Split, to the hospital in Split or Knin. So that road is important for the survival of people in that area. It's very dangerous and all the bandages are dangerous, you know from this neighborhood, which is why I'm surprised to reject these amendments with some cosmetic changes that you mention here, and this route is largely in the length of the Peru Lake is very, very dangerous, and it's the busiest in the Republic of Croatia at the state road level. I repeat again, these proposals from the fast road, the union of Sinja with Križica – Kukuzovac which is the most important road of life, you reject it. You refuse to be near Sinjo, I see no reason, and therefore I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16115	Amendment number 47 again, MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16116	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes providing funds for the reconstruction of state road D1 at the move from Dicma to Sinj. Croatian roads have agreed and a new idea solution is under way and a new environmental impact study for the Dicma bypass is under way. Bringing spatial planning documentation to the Split-Dalmatia County will continue further during the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16117	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16118	Here, as regards the bypass or merger of Sinja with Križice-Kukuzovac or Dicma bypass in 2016 at 12 months, the one with me under the pressure of Oleg Butkovic to finally make this project documentation and a study of environmental impact was made. The fast road to Sinj is the road to life. Sinj and the Cetina region are the most perspective in the area of the hinterland from Savudrija to Prevlaka and the entire Dalmatian Zagora must have shrub houses according to means highway and towards Split. The very proximity of Split with the construction of a fast road is significant. However, I am giving this amendment to iron the part of the Kukuzovac at turn S before entering the very plane which is very dangerous. The traffic of the state road D1 which is the most frequent and most traffic there is in the area we need to find a solution and there was some kind of project at the time I went to the Croatian roads, push this project to iron that turn S and this triba make 3 strips, if we know that there is a lot of pressure from.../incomprehensible/... of Trilj means both from Sinj himself and in the opposite direction there are columns huge and there are numerous delays, accidents, because this S is really unspeakable and very dangerous before the Kukuzovec itself. And once again, the fast road is a key project, a vessel of housewives for Sinj and the Cetin end. This is what will be done regardless of what the time of the reelection will now be promised again. Project documentation has been launched and we expect it to start building. Therefore, the ironing of road D1 from Dicma to Sinj is very, very important and therefore I have proposed this amount of 20 million and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16119	Amendment 48, MP Miro Bulj again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16120	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for reconstruction of the county road Sinj D1 – Troglav - Island County road 6082. The reconstructions of the county roads are not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16121	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16122	So that's why I suggested an amendment because the county washes its hands, and the ministry has to jump in simply because the county doesn't care enough about the Dalmatian Zagora, and in this case neither on a road that's very important and that can be arranged because there's a track there. So when we go from D1 to Sinj from the municipality, the building of the municipality towards the island there is a hypodrom there is a populated place, there we have an airport which touristic can still rise to a higher level, we have a hypodromic there and the Alkarska ergela, that area according to the Island can be built cycling trails, we have catering facilities, we have a promenade Sinj on the Sinj field, according to that part. I therefore believe that there should also be a cycling trail as a tourist attraction and I think that this amendment from Sinj – Troglav towards the Island this road deserves to be realised at a higher level than the county because the county simply promises something before the election, and to them there are much more important elections in the party. It is much more important that Sanader is humanizing in the party than the mayor when he and Blaženko Boban were to do so, so that the counties have washed their hands from what they are managing because the tribal would invest and I expect from the state, if he had already decentralized the road, if he had decentralized money towards the county to decentralize towards local self-governments and to help local self-governments, because surely the people living on this ground know how much it would mean for the survival of people in the island of the municipality, according to Trilj in the hinterland, in the very town of Sinj, from Sinj center to the airport and according to the municipality of the island, therefore this amendment of 20 million kuna of the office and the road is required to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16123	We're going to the 49th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16124	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the road and foot-and-mouth in the Sinj area of D60 from the Masla intersection towards Brnaza through the Turks, Koshuta, Trilj. The Croatian Roads procurement plan for the 20th planned to launch the procurement for the necessary work of rebuilding the state road D60 and upgrading the footing through the settlements of Kosuta in length of 2.7 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16125	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16126	Unfortunately, you refuse, the only thing this government has sent is trying to send garbage from Vrgorec to a dump in the area and Brnaz and Turjak, this road is also very frequent, very dangerous, we have bandages, mainly in the area of Kosut and Turjak, of course in Brnazam, there we come to the Masla and the intersections that are loaded and that suppresses all traffic from the Chaporica highways from Kamenska go, go to that share, and I think we have an alternative solution that is good, from Kosuta road to the Kukuzovac zone, thereby shortening 7 km of road to Split or Kukozovac itself, that traffic would be distributed to that stock, it would be spread to Masla, but this is a very dangerous stock. One who went from Masla to Trile to Kamenska or the Imotski old road or on the highway knows that road is dangerous and often accidents with tragic consequences on these bandages on this section occur. The reconstruction of this road, that people deserve it. This people are burdened, I said, only by waste disposal and everyone washes their hands of these people, they are forced by enormous burdens and threatened by the traffic and safety of their children, so that the state, because it is the state road from Masla towards Trile through those villages from Brnaz, Turjak, Koshut to Trilj, I think they deserve much better traffic is that road very important. That's why I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment. However, it is very important for me to point out once again that alternative solutions must be sought as far as Olive is concerned, the pressure from Trilj on Maslu is of course the most important project, I repeat, the fast road Sinj, Križice-Kukuzovac. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16127	The 50th Amendment is the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16128	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of shares and roads and foot-and-mouth disease in the Sinj area from D-1 Karakasic via Jasenski to Citluk. Croatian roads have refurbished the asphalt stake on the state road D-1 Karakasica-Jasensko-Citluk in the past period. There is a continuity of one-sided hiking trails across the entire length except for miles 62 + 300 to 62 + 600 h. 300 m as a combination of already built footsteps from the municipality of Hrvatska to the town of Sinja whose construction is foreseen by the plan for the purchase of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16129	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16130	I'm very quiet here to warn you of the carelessness of the county roads and the impotence of those who are responsible. We have meaning here from D-1 towards, in Karakasica towards Jasensk and Chitluk, that road is very dangerous, the width of the stake is very narrow so that I gave this amendment to the faith that since you are from these parts, you will come, you are bound by these parts, you come, you know these places, these places are forgotten, as well as the rest in the Cetina region, so I'm expecting you to get rid of the budget, but here I call you once again to do so. Otherwise nogostop, une we have two miners, i.e. on both sides of Suhač and Karakasica, which has been since 902. exploited, and that's where they've been going from the Long War to delay the waste since 2007, but I've been on the road with my neighbors to those who've been spending a dangerous debt on the Long War, and only when I came to HS under pressure have I fought to get this area no-gost and it was only for exploitation in this area. Instead of resuscitating that area, to help this area, Karakasic, Chitluku and Jasenska, Suhač, Lucana towards Radosic, this area of the west, the area of the town of Sinj, these places are simply forgotten by the state, but they are the most prospective and the most beautiful for life. At this moment, not only in Split-Dalmatia County, I repeat, from Savudrija to Prevlaka, the most prospective city is the town of Sinj and Cetin region, due to the proximity of Split, because of this merger and that is why these roads connect the Kukuzovac-Krizice highway to Split, it is becoming Sinj suburba Sinj and so Sinj will have a future. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16131	Amendment No. 51st same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16132	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the road stock through the settlement Lucani from D-1 to Radosic. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16133	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16134	I fully understand, therefore, that I am giving these amendments to warn that the county is not functioning well and that the decentralised money that citizens are paying in the state, and the state is giving in the counties is simply not being directed evenly. Lucanas are a populated place just like Suhač, and Karakasica, that's the three-way there and Chitluk and, over here, I said the way to Jasenski. However, from Lucan to Radosic to get to the state road code, the Radosic road is in catastrophic condition, the road is very dangerous, we trib the expansion, we have many bandages, we have military folds, we have numerous downhills, hills, floors, under this where there are dangerous bandages. So I think that the county, I repeat, washed its hands except in the pre-election time di a bit ironed out somewhere for which a voice essentially, paved where it may be, be, uh, di can be seen election cycles, and here where it is necessary not to do so. Why can you see election cycles? It's important to black out a little before the election, there's the rollers, there's the plugs, but a significant road like this one from D-1 to the state road that goes towards Drnis, Sinj-Drnis, that compound is catastrophic and it's very busy. That's where people live, there's school. People in Luciani and Radosic feel quite threatened there. So I repeat again, along with these some sort of bypasses that are existing, the bypasses that would prevent this major blow to the pressure on the very centre of the city of Sinj with the alignment of these roads, the expansion of these roads, would reduce pressure in the city centre of Sinj, and much more secure would be the locals of these areas of Sinj. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16135	We're going to the 52nd Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16136	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes providing funds for the reconstruction of the Cetina bridge in the town of Obrovac Sinjski-Han, a project of documentation for bridge recovery was developed and the conservator's consent to the project solution was obtained. Work will be planned in the next investment cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16137	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16138	The one who went from Sinj through Glavice with the danger that Glavica is a state road to Han, Sinj-Han is 7 km away, in this area we have no footing through Glavica. Glavices are the largest village in the Republic of Croatia which do not have the status of the municipality by opening up a concrete channel along the road where you have not accepted these amendments from Šuća to Privia and from Privia to Han where our children go, especially the bridge. If someone is going towards Livno, it can be and that road has now become a transit to Livno because we have a road from Livna to Bila Briga and there is a lot of transit road, there is a lot of traffic, but the bridge cannot pass two cars. And Han was once a significant centre in the region of Dalmatia, and I think that a new reconstruction or new invention of a solution, a new bridge to that area must enable normal transport and safety, mainly children in that area. That's why the bridge on Han deserves a lot more than this amendment I've given over the past few years and it's always the same explanation. Planned documentation, feasibility study, always the same story, I don't know where you're hiding all those release papers. And here I am glad that a colleague from the HDZ from Varazdin County came to hear about the problems of my amendments that are going on in Sinj, the Cetinski region, the Dalmatian Zagora and Dalmatia. Once again, I warn you, these projects are significant, we have given from Prevlaka to Savudrija, from Savudrija to Vukovar a number of amendments to 150 amendments, I have given myself 80 amendments, the most of which apply to my Dalmatia and to the Cetinski region, which is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16139	Thank you. Let's go to Amendment No. 53 rep Miro Bulj again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16140	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of footings on the state road D219 at the turn of Sinj-Glavice-Obrovac Sinjski-Han. In cooperation with the Croatian roads, Sinj ordered the construction of a project documentation of legpost construction with D219 shares of Šuća-Privija, which is expected to start almost, while for D219 Privija-Han, a project documentation has already been developed and public procurement is expected to start in the next investment cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16141	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16142	I will repeat once again what I said that the area from Sinj through Glavice to Han is essentially a state road. The heads are the largest and this area of Sinj, just suburbs, the Glavices are without a foothold. Here we have children who go to OSH on Han and along this bridge that is inadequate for driving vehicles, let alone pedestrians. And for Privia-Han I have given the amendment to the city council there will be five years which was then accepted and I hope that will go into a solution as solved the problem of Suhač at Slani Stines where I then managed to fight for this nogost and will solve this problem through Glavice. Of course, the only part left unsettled that was then accepted is the amendment of Mrgoode i.e. From... to the D1 from... to the Croats, this part of the move from Šuće to Privije is very dangerous, it is very dangerous. I repeat once again that the open channel and that move if the car lands here, you're done, and the children and pedestrians can't function there. And I repeat, it's the biggest place, the heads are the biggest place. The heads are usually next door to me, and from Glavica is the president of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic, so I call on Zoran Milanovic to have his authority at meetings with Prime Minister Plenkovic where he is obviously in good relations to try to help you, and by the way, Mr Mihotić, you are also part of the origins, to work together in this village to get something back, to return to our town of Sinj, the Cetinski region. I repeat, the most perspective area from Savudrija to Prevlaka that has been forgotten. With these fast road projects, Sinja meets with Split and with the Sinj and Cetinski highways, the most perspective is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16143	We're going to the 54th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16144	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes providing funds for the construction of foot-and-mouth disease on the state road D56 through the Muc municipality. With regard to the above, it is pointed out that construction works are under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16145	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16146	The state road passing through Muć towards Drniš if you drove from either Split or Sinj or you went from the direction of Velov through Muć or from the direction of Drniš you saw the danger when passing through Muć, literally the houses along the road. There are numerous accidents, many people have suffered and suffered severe injuries, some have lost their lives, and I think it is unserious to bypass the Dalmatian Zagora. I know that he is from that area and coalition partner Mr. Mihotić Tomo Kerum, but Keruma is more concerned with the concession on the beaches than with Muć and Ogorje where he comes from and Zagora. So I ask once again that these projects that are very important for the Dalmatian Zagora, the Dalmatian Zagora is potential. It saddens me to see that in the Cetina region we have 50,000 residents last year, two treatments were enrolled less in the 1st grade, and a very promising area, literally twice by stone, tossed to Split another city in size, the largest city in the Adriatic. We have the vicinity of the highway that it is connected and the Cetina region, we have tourist brands, we have a brand of Sinjska alka we have a religious brand, the Wonder Lady of Sinjska and I'm glad when you come to Alka, you've come down literally and connected Mr. Mihotic, including family, so we expected you to accept something a little bit, but Oleg Butković sent you here once, so he didn't make it around the village of Čvrljevo, Sitno Gornje, so he got a little killed, Bokin's oak di, you know that, so he sent you. But I'm sorry that the projects that Dalmatia deserves don't push the main Cetin end, Zagora, you regularly reject it, it saddens me. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16147	55th Amendment is the same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16148	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes the provision of funds for the construction of footings on the state road D-219 through the settlement Radosic and the road road Put Palic. During the past period, Croatian roads have agreed to design a project of reconstruction of the state road marking D-219 Street road of 800 metres in Sinj, and a local permit is expected soon. The construction permits will also take place in the realization of the necessary works. The project envisions the construction of mutual hiking trails.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16149	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16150	This road when you go from Sinj to Drniš is essentially from St. Frane's cemetery where, otherwise, parking is not solved, so it is a state road where literally in the center of Pavića, Tiganje and this part when you go towards Radosic where the houses are by the road, bandages are very dangerous. Here we have, the only solution is the footstep and reconstruction of that part of the road. And it's been repeating itself for years. In one part, however, a footstep was made, but in this populated di Ercegi, di Pavići, so under Pavić the heavens simply in this part is a huge problem. You, it's your jurisdiction, it's the jurisdiction of the state, it's the jurisdiction of the ministry, it's the state road, there's people, and literally there's houses along the road, the bandages are very dangerous, there's no footstep. Gori is a beautiful promenade, we have Pavić Heaven towards Radosic and that area in Radosic when we pass so much worse, you were at the restaurant "Rustika" probably on several occasions, in "King Rmbasa", you were probably more often than I think, and let me also be glad to advertise our gastro offer in this area, we have a direction where we have no footsteps. It's a very dangerous direction, and that's where people are at risk. This beautiful part with a view of the High, which will unfortunately soon be devastated, but we will give ourselves, try to resist, that beautiful part is, the triba means simply to ensure the decent life of these people and the safe life of people is right next to the city, there are children going to school on foot, it is simply not possible for them to have a bus because of the law that says that up to 3 km there is no insurance of this traffic, so this section of Pavici-Radosici towards Drnis has to be dealt with urgently and therefore I ask for a vote on this amendment, I am disappointed that you did not support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16151	And the last 56th Amendment related to the Croatian Roads, the same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16152	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the restoration of the section of the D-2 Vukovar-Ilock road. Project documentation has been made and a construction permit for the reconstruction of Vukovar-Opatovac stock has been issued. The performance of the works will be divided into 4 phases, the Ilock bypasses are scheduled for the extraordinary maintenance of the 6km stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16153	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16154	I went to Ilock, there was the mayor, and when I went to Ilock, I couldn't source, I was from the Dalmatian mountain, but we gave the Most amendments from, here from Ilock to Prevlaka, from Prevlaka to Savudrija, in all areas we tried to make amendments. When I saw that road length of 39 km, patched up like one, I can't believe it's such a road and a very dangerous road and what's worst is in all your programs and promises, but return to that part of Ilock, which on the 3rd side is bounded by a border with Serbia that's forgotten, this beautiful lipi town, is simply isolated. But I have promises from Minister Zhaoac in the HDZ program, this when he speaks to the Dalmatian about Slavonia and Ilock when I saw and was amazed at the road to Ilock, so that's more embarrassing. More than a shameful general thought that the region that suffered the most from the war, I repeat, which is limited to the easternmost, the Danube border with Serbia is entirely isolated. Whoever didn't see that road, it's, it's amazing, go and see and expect, the Dalmatian suggests for Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem i.e. Ilock the link then you'd have to accept it. And finally again, we've been giving amendments from Savudrija to Prevlaka to Ilock, for the benefit of our citizens we've been giving our socially endangered citizens suggestions, you haven't accepted anything, and that's what's disappointing, but let the citizens see and let them know. I ask you to vote for the symbol, the hero for Vukovar this [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16155	Let's move on. It is now up to the draft financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2021 and the projection of the '22 plan. and '23. With us is Natasha Mikush Zigman, here you are. We're going to the First Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16156	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, esteemed MPs, esteemed MPs. This amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the recovery of the Minaka dump in the Sinj area and to continue construction of the sortery and compost. As far as the dump is concerned, a public procurement procedure is under way for the selection of contractors and professional supervision and this is in the final stage and the work will start soon. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has provided funds to co-finance the recovery of the Moinka landfill under a contract concluded, and related to sorting and composting, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has announced calls for construction of sorting plants and composts through which EU grants are provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16157	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16158	Thank you very much. Contradictivity and poor policy of the minister endangering Coric, endangering the environment of Ćorić and we gave him more and the economy is the Myanka near Sinja dump. Last year, along with a subordinate or joint association likely in Slovenia 9, the man was likely to have reached some conclusion that they would have to show towards the EU that they were doing something about waste disposal and are doing nothing. You know what they've come to the conclusion? That from Vrgorac 120 km away from Sinj waste from the same sanitary condition on this dump transport to Sinj cost more expensive means citizens with old cars that are 30 years old that pollute the environment, to transport to Sinj to the Majnak dump site, and we are full of hats that now, we do not know how to preserve this river Cetina and the tributaries of the river Cetina. And now, normally, that it was normal to take an example of Krk, the island of Krk which is already recycled, separates 60, 70%, and can still go, they remembered some regional centre which is also a dangerous Lečevica because it is located on drinking waters, where the drinking waters are. Of course I didn't, and you won't waste any time. But since they saw I didn't let that waste be delayed with the citizens and the locals, you know what they did, now they said that Minika can't work because she doesn't have these sanitary conditions for waste disposal. You know why? Is no one interested in waste disposal and waiting for you a worse scenario than in Naples in Split-Dalmatia County, and my Mojenko is being rehabilitated, these are the jobs of compostana.../incomprehensible/... that is the tribal to be long ago, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16159	2nd Amendment again, MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16160	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the recovery of landfills of so-called waste. A black hill in the Zadar hinterland is more accurate in the village of Biljani Donji. The planned appropriations in the budgetary item of administrations and management cannot be reduced in the proposal for this budget because these funds finance the procurement of information systems supporting the operation of the fund, maintaining the same and all security measures for information systems. On the other hand, the cost recovery in the Zadar hinterland is a project run by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property since it is mineral raw material.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16161	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16162	Biljane Donja and the industrial cost that has been put off for years you can see when you go on the highway from Zagreb on the live side otherwise it is the Straight Wheels, the fertile Straight Wheels that can produce thousands, thousands of tons of vegetables, fruits, unfortunately in this area live people mostly of Serbian nationality, nobody cares, and there was, of course, the cost being put off and the European Court ruled that it was harmful and that it was illegally placed there and that the trial should be rescheduled. And they will pay for the damages, so the court ruled, the European Court and the damages will pay the Croatian state for that black hill where people live who deal with livestock that disastrously industrial cost in nature and thus delay in the Straight Wheels. I'm looking for an urgent solution, I've brought here a black cost, that cost that, and I've even donated it to the president of a red bow assembly just to see what it looks like, a message sent by these people from that area, a tribune to the national minority Milorad Pupovac, the Shimpragi who always talks about these people's problems absolutely and is still Milorad Pupovac from that area of gender, so I expected that now, while this one is in power, this problem is going to be solved. However, they are concerned that they are in power over these people. Once again, ecology in Dalmatia and the environment, environmental conservation is a key problem, so lagoons in Knin, so this problem in Biljani, the problem of Krka, the problem of Cetina, the problem of the River Pritoka, the problem of Lečevica and Minke, you have made chaos down there. And that's why Minister Coric is not the environmental minister, but the environmental minister. That's why I'm asking, because of Biljan, I'm asking that this amendment be accepted and that the garbage move from that place and that poison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16163	Amendment number 3. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16164	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why K200001 activities and, in accordance with the above-mentioned reasons, financing the development of fund information systems that are supporting the collection of fees, the management of specific categories of waste, the monitoring of projects and programmes co-financed by the Fund and financial operations and the management of the documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16165	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16166	I will repeat once again that the Environmental Protection Fund has, must play a significant role in the Republic of Croatia in the conservation of the environment, it seems to me that the more we have these funds, these agencies and the more employees we have that work, the less the environment is being preserved and that sustainable development in the area of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely not working. We have wonderful conditions for funds to go to the fund to be used. In my opinion, we would mainly like to take advantage of all possibilities and potentials of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Environment is what is key to the ministry, and we have brought it together, in fact, a key portfolio, with the Ministry of Economy and which Coric, by clubs, is essentially solving these problems. So the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment connect it to you like fire and water, it's immediately in conflict of interest, energy, a better solution would be energy and the environment. The environment must be isolated, you cannot create a conflict of interest because the economy wants of course to profit, profit, and the environment must be preserved in order to have sustainable development. So I once again warn about all the illogicalities of the ministry that it does, all those agencies, funds on environmental conservation because here we simply said about the disposal of waste, about the conservation of water, the rivers, we fought and we're going to fight to get the waters into the Constitution and that this is the basic human right, and that's what we're trying to first of all to preserve our potentials, which is not done. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16167	We're going to the 4th and final amendment also to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16168	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the funds to be spent on co-financing of projects to promote separate collection of waste and recycling are collected by means of the incentive fee set out in Article 29. The law on sustainable waste management. According to the above, the Fund plans calls in 2021 for the purchase of vehicles, vessels and equipment for which eligible customers would be utility companies and concessionaries. Furthermore, a tender for the organisation of civil society in the field of environmental protection is also planned, which implements the fund continuously every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16169	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16170	In this activity that you have now mentioned, you have planned less recycling-related projects and, of course, it is necessary to increase these funds both by encouraging local communities, local self-government units, and by social enterprises, and also by private and, of course, by civil society associations, to collect waste, separate, recycling as much as possible, and that this is essentially true in the field of local self-government, because the environment is very important, it is very important to separate and recycle this waste because that our citizens, our youngest, are getting acquainted with the importance and importance, and this can be best from the bottom, means from the lowest level of associations in the local community, local self-government to give money and thus start to work out what is most important and the biggest problem, and that is waste. Because it's not garbage, waste is money, waste is basically a huge problem of environmental, but if it's smart to recycle, if it's separated from waste, and if it's promoted at the lowest levels, and not in a way that places waste disposal cans, and basically comes in and collects the same truck and thinks about that municipal waste, we didn't do anything. Simply the most important at this point in the matter of waste, garbage, is separation, recycling, and I think it can be a help in agriculture, of course composing that giving it to our farmers is free of charge, we have incentives for farmers and we helped them. I therefore ask for this significant amendment to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16171	I thank the secretary of state and we are going to the last amendment, this is the proposal for a financial plan of HZ and HZ Infrastructure 2021 and a projection of the '22 plan. and in '23, respected Tomislav Mihotic, State Secretary. We have one amendment to the Representative of the Light of the Tušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16172	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u16173	And then it becomes an integral part of the draft financial plan. This brings us to the end of the amendment to the budget, and we'll vote on it tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear MPs, we continue our work, before us: - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 69 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is the Honored Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17046	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to thank you here for the opportunity to present in front of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia amendments and amendments to the Executive Act whose intention is to balance the existing system of enforcement and to further improve it with the proposed measures, while respecting all needs for the enforcement process to be implemented more quickly, more effectively and economically, while protecting the rights of the perpetrators and also the believer. Let me first refer to the measures that preceded these amendments and additions at the beginning of this presentation. Measures to assist citizens and the economy following the pandemic of the Crown Virus were implemented by two laws and by the Government's decision to extend the period of special circumstances from 17 July 2020. The Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the period of special circumstances prescribed the delay of all enforcement and bankruptcy procedures, but also the stalemate of all executive procedures and enforcement of wages and pensions based on which no enforcement procedures were carried out, but the courts, public notebooks, employers and HZMO cases were duly accepted for the sake of statute of limitations and pre-arrangement. In addition, as a support to the economy, the bankruptcy reasons created during the period of special circumstances were not a premise for the submission of a proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. Amendments to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, the FINA Financial Agency did not confiscate funds from the accounts, and all accounts, and all accounts were unblocked until 18 October, the exemptions were legal maintenance and rent, and payment requests were accepted neatly for the sake of the preliminary order. Based on this, no actions were taken until 18 October in all the executive procedures conducted by courts and public notebooks. However, the Ministry of Justice and Administration proposed a model for the adoption and dispatch of a solution to Croatia's public office on the basis of a credible id in which the suspension of the executive proceedings was prescribed by 18 October 2020 in three stages according to the following schedule. On 19 October where the implementations received by 30 June, 20 November are charged by 31 August and 20 January where the implementations are charged by 18 November. That model, or the recommendation, has been confirmed by the public notation chamber on its bodies. According to data processed by the Financial Agency on 31 October 2020, 247,000 consumers, or citizens who failed to settle, have reached unexecuted pay bases, representing a slight increase compared to 31 March 2020 when there were 238,000 consumers who did not subscribe to the unexecuted basis for payment. Therefore, before you the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Executive Act is in the emergency procedure. Given that the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of the well-being of all citizens and to monitor economic developments in particular in such a way that, in particular, the most exposed categories of citizens are not brought into such a deterioration of the material situation considered a existential threat. The phenomenon of the deterioration of the material situation and of payment power in a significant part of the citizens is a circumstance that requires urgent legislative intervention. They consider that due to the Covida-19 disease epidemic, there was a reduction in the economic activity that necessarily resulted in loss of jobs and a reduction in the payload of citizens to meet their regular obligations, although the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making significant efforts in this area and other measures were necessary legislative intervention in order to protect the dignity of the perpetrators by maintaining the principle of proportionality and proportionality between the interests of the creditors and the interest of the debtors. This law introduces a rule on the launch of an enforcement procedure on the basis of a credible document by submitting an electronic proposal through the information system to the public notary. The system will assign proposals to public notaries evenly according to the alphabetical order. It is also prescribed that when public notebooks carry out procedural actions in the executive procedure, they do so as Commissioners of the Court. In order to strengthen the protection of the perpetrators, this law proposes a solution in which a public notary will send a proposal for enforcement when it adopts an orderly proposal and invite the perpetrator to fulfil his debt. If, within 15 days, the authorising officer does not withdraw his proposal to perform, the public notary will make a decision on the performance and deliver the same to the parties. Electronic communication and electronic forms shall be introduced in order to modernise and simplify the executive process. In order to make the executive procedure clearer, more accessible and transparent for all parties and participants in the executive procedure. The proposed amendments and amendments to the Implementing Act reduce the costs of the procedure as there is no longer any cost of issuing a certificate of power and enforcement because they are no longer issued at the request of the executive but are issued by the public notary itself. The introduction of electronic forms reduces the costs of representation and enforcement, the provisions on the fixing of foreseeable costs of the procedure are deleted and a single fee is introduced for the conduct of public notebooks in accordance with the Regulation on the compensation of public notebooks in the executive procedure. It is also intended to improve the delivery provisions because after 2 unsuccessful delivery procedures are carried out through a mandatory panel with the mandatory sending of notifications to the contractor in the mailbox and the personal user box of the e-Citizens system. In order to further protect the dignity of the perpetrators, the law proposes that the exercise be carried out for the purpose of emptying and handing over real estate or occupation is not carried out during the period from 1 November to 1 April except in exceptional cases. It also increases the amount of capital for which real estate can't run from 20,000 kuna to 40,000 kuna. In addition to the existing benefits that are excluded from the law, this legislative proposal proposes new exemptions, such as suitable awards or goddesses, resurrections, regresses, cash rewards for work results and other forms of additional remuneration for workers, rewards for the completed years of work experience to the prescribed amounts not considered taxable, cash flat-rate benefits for the settlement of workers' food costs or the compensation for a warm meal, then cash compensation for victims of criminal offences, funds paid for the implementation of projects by granting grants or financial instruments financed from national funds or the EU budget, as well as funds in the account of representatives of national minorities used for the achievement of minority rights. A new possibility of delaying the enforcement of consumer affairs by 30 days is also foreseen if the status of the file results in the likely integrity of one or more contractual provisions proposed by the EU Court of Justice C407/18 of 26 June 2019 in the case of a cook against Addico Banka. After the expiry of the 30 days provided for in the application for the purpose of determining the integrity of the document on the basis of which the delay of the application is initiated, it shall be provided on another basis and during the period of the integrity procedure. It is also prescribed that the exercise will be suspended under official duty if the executive has not taken any action in the process within 1 year, which in fact encourages the executive to participate actively in the executive procedure in order to achieve the demand because any inactivity is needlessly increasing the amount of debt since interest is ongoing and no appropriate action is taken to achieve demand. Therefore, without the executive’s initiative, it is generally not possible to conduct an executive procedure. In practice, it has been shown in a number of cases that the executives do not show interest in the follow-up of the executive procedure is not putting forward concrete proposals or not asking the court to take concrete procedural action described in the executive procedure or in the Executive Act, but only to hasten the proceedings. Such an act by an executive or not shall not result in a swift and efficient enforcement procedure but shall only burden the court with a large amount of pending cases. The proposed legislative solution is just trying to distinguish between those procedures where the executives have an interest in carrying out the performance of those others where the executives only formally demonstrate their wish to continue the procedure without proposing concrete executive actions. This law will also implement compliance with the Law on the State Administration System in a way that the tasks of the state administration in the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration in the County are entrusted to the units of the regional self-government. Respected MPs and representatives of the issue of the executive procedure as an instrument of forced collection of claims are a social economic problem that requires seriousness and constructiveity. With this proposal to amend and supplement laws, we protect the dignity of the debtors, maintain the balance between the creditors and debtors, and protect the rule of law. I call on you next to support a legislative proposal that will help a significant number of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17047	I thank the minister. Now we'll start with the replicas. Thank you very much, there are 13 replicas, the first colleague is Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17048	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the question is this. In your presentation, you have declared that this law requires the protection of the rule of law, as a doctor of law, whether you can tell the whole public why you are degraded Croatian citizens, and this law makes it impossible for them to have judicial protection than to send them to, to public hearings and the whole process, for example those who are Croats and who live in the EU or, say, Europeans who come from Sweden and other countries immediately offer them at the beginning of judicial protection. Why do such a double dual enforcement system, and why as a doctor of law, as one of the people working on this law, degrade everything in Croatia in relation to the EU, if the Court of Justice does not know the public record process and does not know the decision of public notaries at the level of such a court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17049	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17050	Thank you very much, Reverend Troscott. First of all, the court protection of debtors or perpetrators has always been and will always be present in the Croatian executive procedure. As for your particular thesis that we degrade, discriminate against Croatian citizens, so you are calling for two verdicts, so Pula parking and Zulpi Karpasic, which were brought to the European Court of Justice, where the court has actually determined whether the public notary considers the court within the meaning of 2 regulations, so Regulation Brussels 1 bis and Regulation 805/2004. Therefore, the Hungarian public notebooks are included in these two regulations and are therefore considered to be a court. We do not discriminate here Croatian gunmen they have the possibility of objecting and legal remedy to court as foreign citizens do. So we here when we talk about costs, so costs are much less running the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17051	Thank you. All I'm asking is that you keep an eye on him. He's one minute a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17052	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17053	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17054	Dear Minister, here I want to hear your comment on the fact that at the unpaid cost of 80 kuna the performer pays at the end sometimes 800 kuna. I checked this is not a practice in most EU countries here's your comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17055	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17056	Thank you, Your Honor, when we talk about small costs, so far it has been known to happen that the executioner therefore gets a solution for such a small cost, so the procedure for such a small cost has already been launched and the entire executive procedure is being carried out and the funds are being seized. Now we have a prior notice, so a prior notice where a public notary informs a person that there is a certain debt and gives him 15 days to actually settle that debt, if he considers it unwarranted then can be based on an objection to initiate court proceedings. What we do through this law and through the rule that will be passed, which will follow this law, so we cut costs and significantly reduce costs. So we have a cost of up to 1,000 kuna, so now we're going to have a public notebook cost of 100 kuna, and then the cost if there's any need for a lawyer's expense of a full 50 kuna form, so a total of 150 kuna we'll have, so the party's going to have a cost, so if it goes to the FINU, then another 50 to 150 kuna, so half the cost is less.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17057	Thank you very much. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17058	Thank you. Dear Minister, there are two groups of people to whom this amendment and the addition of the law will apply. These are primarily new cases and those for which no rightful solution has been issued. Say simply for the sake of the public and for the sake of clarity of your attitude on how, who, and how, for example, a Santa Claus or a regression will be paid, in fact, those exceptions you've been talking about, explain to us how and how they will now be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17060	Thank you very much, very much. So here I hope that, at the end of this week or Friday, this amendment and the addition of the law will be voted in the Croatian Parliament and will actually come into effect before 1 December when the payment and the Santa Clauses will follow, so through these changes, our aim was to extend the exceptions to the implementation of the mandate, so all those payments, or all those payments, and those exceptions that go after December 1st will be preserved from the commission, so if they are paid to a protected account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17061	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17062	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Ministers Article 4 introduces even more rudimentary, but nevertheless a kind of e-provision or electronic communication between participants in the executive procedure. However, the same article provides that the implementation through electronic forms, the alphabetical delivery of objects by electronic means to public notaries, electronic communication between parties, etc. will only start to apply when you, as Minister of Special Decision, determine that technical conditions have been met. So today, at the moment this law is passed, we still don't know when the most important newspaper of the law might start to apply. For this reason, I ask you to answer clearly here when we can expect that the technical requirements of Article 4 of the Law will be met, or when we can expect that electronic application will begin, although in such a rudimentary form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17064	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, first, it was necessary to change the normative framework so that we could access the design of the application and, therefore, we could also put in place a provision that the validity of certain provisions relating to the performance would start with a certain time-out. So we're going in the variant of this law to establish a regulation that regulates communication through the e-ove system. I believe that over a period of 6 to 6 months, 6 to 8 months we will have an e-mail system and we will actually show that we are introducing electronic communication and all of that system that will ultimately be faster and more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17065	Now it's time for my esteemed colleague Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17066	Dear Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17067	Just a little bit before that, my colleague Grumoja, you're hearing from me here, please be quiet, I know it can be fun in another room, but be a little quieter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17068	Thank you. Your Honor, my question is heading towards that, and you know how much on average an objection is being made to a solution on the basis of a credible ID, if you make an insight into the e-record most likely you'll know. I am heading towards that when we know that future proceedings will be initiated with public notaries as Commissioner of the Courts and in the statement of the objection these same cases will be delivered to courts for further settlement in litigation, is this dissuasion of the courts, how did we, by introducing Commissioners, reduce the costs and speed up the processes of our fellow citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17069	So, as I have told Mr. Troscott, court protection exists for both Croatian citizens and foreign citizens, the court always protects the parties in these proceedings. So, through the complaint as a legal remedy, we allow the foreigners, therefore, to the perpetrator, to challenge the court, to challenge the demand before the court. What I think will reduce the pressure on the court and reduce the number of cases in court is this prior notice where, before a decision is reached, the debtor will be informed of the existence of a certain debt and he will actually, for the 15 days left to him through that previous notice, therefore, see whether that debt is justified or not justified, whether he will settle it or question it before the competent court. What I can say, for example. In Slovenia, in fact, through that electronic communication there is a very small percentage of complaints, it is about 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17070	Let's move on, now it's time for fellow Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17071	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Article 12 of the amending and supplementing this law increases the number of receipts that will be excluded from the application and that is commendable. I was thinking that another fee here should be classified, or it is not a fee, but a sports scholarship for athletes with disabilities who unfortunately do not have available resources from transport, halls, swimming pools, etc. Not in all cities. So here I am asking you to consider whether it is possible to classify this scholarship as an exception to the performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17072	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17073	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, through these amendments and additions, we have extended the round of exceptions for, for the sake of it, and I believe that through, through amendments, not only yours but all other constructive proposals, so we will consider and respect the vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17074	Here you go, fellow Peovic. It's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17075	Thank you. Good afternoon. You're saying we're cutting costs now, and then you're quoting the cost of over 300 kunas by just one step, so on. a previous notice, calling on the perpetrators to fulfil their debt where both the public notary and the court and the FINA will have to settle. You say there is no confirmation by establishing an electronic procedure, but yet the public notaries are paid a unique fee under the rules on fees, which is a clienteletistly elected overcompensated, that we understand each other. Public records are basically privatizing part of the justice system and state apparatus. The judicial system is systematically destroyed by corruption and low investment, too few people are employed, and those who have hired must be politically alike. In such conditions, system overloads occur, and those who have produced this overload as a solution advocate the privatisation of part of the system. It's the same model as any other case of privatization and outsorms, poor service and even higher costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17076	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17077	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. As regards the costs, therefore, the basis of this law will adopt a Regulation on specific costs in the executive procedures. So through that rule, it will be prescribed that the cost of a public notary is for, for a debt of up to 1000 kuna, that it is 100 kuna, then we have the cost, the potential cost of a lawyer's full form, which is 50 kuna, which doesn't have to be and we have the cost of implementation on the FINA which is 150 kuna for a 1000 kuna debt, so it's somewhere 250 kuna for a 1000 kuna debt. If we take the average, so 85% of the claims are up to 5,000 kuna, here we have the cost of a 150 kuna public notary, the cost of a 50 kuna lawyer, and the cost of a FINA 375 kuna, so a total of 500 kuna. This significantly reduces costs compared to current arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17078	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17079	Thank you. Dear Members, please answer us what was the reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not approach a comprehensive, comprehensive amendment to the Executive Act, as well as the accompanying laws that serve the implementation of the exercise, such as enforcement of money when it is known to everyone that you are 2019. have prepared a draft of the Executive Act, that it has been in e-consultation, that you have provided for solutions that are far better and more progressive than those that are now being offered, that, for example, it was a much more significant return to court, that it is visible from the fact that the court still does not have full control of the legality of the proceedings, especially contracts on which the exercise is carried out because this will not delay the implementation of the judgment and we will not be in line again with the European Court's demands which requested the contradiction of conduct. to confess to confess [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Croatia's final solutions? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17080	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17081	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs for asking. Therefore, contradictions are achieved through these amendments and additions through the Institute of Previous Notifications. In fact, we are fulfilling that remark that the European Court has made in two judgments that I mentioned on the Croatian executive procedure. What I'd like to say is I didn't make it to my colleague Troscott, so 2019. It was also the decision of the European Court of Justice, i.e. on 4 April 2019. where the European Court of Justice has said on the basis of the previous question raised by the Municipal Court in Zagreb that the European Court does not enter the way in which the executive procedure is arranged in the Republic of Croatia. Let me also refer to your findings on the whole solution, so these provisions that we have here today, which are before you, in this law were also in the law, the whole law of 2019. who was at counseling.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17082	Comrade Bencic, please stick to the line. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17083	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I support the simplification and costing of executive procedures. I agree with the Advocate General who took part in the e-consultation, who actually insists on a comprehensive solution to the executive procedures in Croatia which this bill is not. But I will refer to the part of your presentation where you say that you have made an effort to extend the base freed from certain debtors, or the most exposed groups of citizens you release from the executive proceedings. I am sorry that you forgot to say one important group of society, and these are persons with disabilities who, despite the fact that they are excluded from their performance, their certain receipts based on disability are not their incomes that are very often not enough to meet the basic existential needs and they are really threatening them, if they are not in the executive procedures, they are threatening to do so and you should have thought about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17084	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17085	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here we are in the public consultation, so we have considered all the proposals we have received and, accordingly, we have drawn up the final draft of the law. Here, I expect, therefore, that through this debate today in HS, certain amendments will be drawn up that we will consider until the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17086	Here you go, fellow Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17087	Dear Minister, I have listened very carefully to you, the lightness you've given us here is terrifying. I simply can't believe the ease you've been talking about the 220,000 Croats who have been completed and waiting for the performance. Are you aware that this 220,000 is turning into a million of our fellow citizens? And do you know as a resolute minister that 84% of these performances are the result of the power, water and gas delivery, and are you aware and do you believe that and do you think that Krš-Padjani, JANAF and other institutions and crimes that have occurred in them have contributed to one part of these being done?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17088	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17089	Thank you, well-respected representative, for the constructive question and comment. Therefore, as regards the proposal of the Executive Act or the very problem of enforcement, therefore, the problems of the citizens being executed, which is a problem which, which already exists longer, which, in fact, only the HDZ Government is systematically dealing with, is shown by changes to the law of 2017, and also changes to the three laws, it is the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on money and the Law on amendments to the Law on consumer bankruptcy. In 2016, we had 375,000 blocked citizens with 43 billion kuna, now on today we have 230,000 blocked citizens, a debt of just over 17 million kuna, so we systematically deal with this problem and we will deal with it, and next year, when we will prepare a full solution to the Executive Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17090	Thank you. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17091	Dear Minister, I am impressed by the way you and your colleagues defend this law by changing it now, if I understand it 27 times correctly. I can't understand that someone 27 times changes something that's essentially wrongly set and it's essentially wrong at a time like this and continues to benefit only one category of people in this country, and these are public notebooks. This law will benefit neither those to whom anyone is in debt nor those who are in debt. This law that you insist on protecting benefits only public notebooks that, according to your assessment of 500 kuna, only those who are currently in charge of more than 100 million kuna. Are you aware of this and how you feel about the law that you change 27 times and fail to fix?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17092	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17093	Thank you, Your Honor, I think you are one of those parties you belong to, so you've been in a position for almost eight years to change certain things. So you could change the executive law, you could throw out public notebooks... In 2012, therefore the SDP was passed, the SDP passed this law in 2012. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17094	Just a minute please, just a minute, buddy don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17095	This law has also introduced predictable costs that have increased the total costs that we are now abolishing. The law also introduced FINU as a paying agency over funds. So check it out, and then you'll change your mind about whether or not the law has changed 27 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17096	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17097	Dear Ministers of Proposed Law is a deep disappointment for 250,000 of our fellow citizens who are already in debt slavery, for them this law means absolutely nothing. They let stories go about not being able to complete a Christmas or a regression I don't know if they're naive or pure mockery. I also believe that mockery is the way you have translated and transposed into our legal order the Court of Justice of the EU in the Kuhar case against Addico Bank, namely a 30-day delay in the executive procedure in the event that the integrity of the contract is sought does not mean anything, literally nothing, and the stories that later the delay will be able to be sought in another procedure under some other rules will only further worsen such a bad situation in terms of unifying our case-law. But for you, I have a few specific examples, questions. Is the information system developed, how much it cost, when we can expect its implementation and how you have ensured transparency in monitoring the rotation of the award executives in public notebooks? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17098	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17099	Thank you, well-respected MPs, as far as your observation is concerned, so we have not developed the executive e-communication system or the e-provision system, we will already develop it when this law is adopted in the Croatian Parliament or when it comes into force, and we will also develop all mechanisms of control and supervision and transparency throughout this process. I would also refer to your doubts about the start of application and exemption, so you as a lawyer probably know when the law comes into force and the proceedings it does and so there is no need for us to enter into this debate about how this law will take effect, which will apply, so I believe that by the end of the week or Friday it will be voted in the Croatian Parliament and will enter into force before 1 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17100	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17101	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17102	Wait a minute, someone didn't, colleague Bencic, can you turn off the microphone from colleague Oreshkovic. Okay, here we go. It's off. Thank you. Thank you. Now, you can, uh, get the time back to the beginning, 'cause it didn't come out. Well, go seven seconds and I'll give you more, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17103	Thank you, Your Honor. So, in the announcement of today's or the reasoning of today's law, you announced the protection of the dignity of the perpetrators, you announced the performance as a social economic problem, you announced that as a minister you were protecting the rule of law, but that you were also introducing a balance. Balance between the one side of the contractor and the other side of the charger. So please tell me where this social balance went to help the weaker ones, or that society and the state react where it is most needed. In this case, it is most necessary for those who remain on the margins, today on the margins and this Implementing Law to remain children with developmental difficulties because their parents do not have the exception of status in this executive procedure from enforcement to their total Receipts and revenue. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17104	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17105	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As I said at first, therefore, the problem of execution and executive procedures is something that the HDZ government has been struggling with in the past term, but continues in this as well. So, 2017. We have introduced the principle that the only real estate cannot be carried out. We have introduced the principle that the real estate can't be implemented if the principal is less than 20,000 kuna. So we introduced a possibility, or we prescribed a situation so that no natural person from the real estate he lives in could be delegated. We also gave other persons the right to accommodation within 18 months. We also increased the amount of wages, pensions and other permanent cash receipts by 2/3 to ž. So we continue to improve the legislative framework on a continuous basis, and this is also seen in these amendments and additions. The law of law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17106	We now have four colleagues who were outside the big assembly, first up, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17107	Dear Ministers, this law should be equal to Croatian citizens and foreigners. He is not against all your reasoning the fact is that foreign legal and natural persons are resolved in courts, and Croatian citizens of natural and legal persons are solved through public notebooks. Why not such equality with Croatian citizens where Croatian citizens are damaged? It is very important why the same law, complementing and amending the same law, is always changing dozens of times what is wrong and what cannot be fixed? The people expect a single law, a new law that will be just, balanced and decisive, and not always, always suits the stronger ones and someone in the middle order, and these are public notebooks that will earn billions, of course with the help of FINA. Here, if you can answer that, thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17109	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As I told your colleague Troscott, there is no discrimination against Croatian and foreign citizens. Therefore, judicial protection is secured for both Croatian and foreign citizens. As far as I'm concerned, I mentioned these two, two verdicts, so now I'm getting that remark from those two verdicts, which is that there is no contradiction of the procedure we introduce through these changes and complemented through the so-called Institute of Previous Notifications. So here I believe that, through the adoption of these amendments and additions, we will therefore change certain things into certain provisions of the Executive Act, and next year we will approach the creation of a whole law which will therefore already have a quality basis in these amendments and additions, which will revise the whole concept of the exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17110	Comrade Demetlik, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17111	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here's what you said at the end of the day that you're going to make a whole new solution, so the new law, that's what we support, but we also have to admit that with these amendments and additions to the existing law there are some positive newspapers. In the opening statement, you said that there was an increase in the number of benefits that were excluded from the performance, and that is to say that I am not counting, on Christmas Eve, on the resurrection, on the regres, on the prizes, etc., I was wondering if in those awards you predicted, because they were not deceded, on severance, I believe that the same reward for some working time and the return of a paid tax for the past year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17112	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17113	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So in this valid bill of law here before you, so these two things aren't listed as exceptions, and here I'll be free to ask you to make an amendment, so we'll actually consider that possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17114	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17115	So we have warned on several occasions how the Executive Law should be regulated in the Republic of Croatia. It must not happen that our citizens actually end up in an executive spiral that is impossible to get out of, where various costs are being accumulated and we have proposed a Slovenian model, so we have proposed digitalisation of the performance, exclusion of public notebooks from the enforcement process, but you obviously ministers want to keep public, public notebooks in this process at all costs, and I don't know if it makes any sense and we won't make amendments, we've made our proposals and legal and other, you don't want to discuss them. We see that it makes no sense at all because you do not want any consensus, you have rejected all our amendments to the budget, but I call on you when you do not want to accept anything the opposition proposes to bring new executive law, not these cosmetic changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17116	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17117	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have probably noticed that in response to the replicas for some parliamentarians, I told some parliamentary deputies to send amendments, so here I call on you to send amendments to see your vision and the idea of how this Slovenian model would be painted in Croatia. What is to say, and it is related to the Slovenian model, so through these changes and additions we are approaching the Slovenian model in that part of the digitization of the whole process. Unfortunately, the costs of the Slovenian model are far higher than those of the Executive Procedure in Croatia, according to these new amendments and additions. There you have submitted an executive proposal of 44 to 55 EUR, and a complaint of 44 and 55 EUR, and a complaint of EUR 125, you do not have a Financial Agency there, you already have banks that charge far more, higher cost of spending on money. So the concept of performance in Slovenia is applicable in a particular part, which is therefore digitisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17118	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17119	Dear Ministers, 230,000 blocked citizens in the Republic of Croatia have their name and last name, have their own destiny, which is largely dependent on the Executive Law on these amendments and additions to the law. Unfortunately, their fate remains almost the same. This is the 26th Amendment to the Executive Act, which continues to offer no final solution to the problem but only a few fire departments. These measures are not bad, but they are not enough because the Implementing Law remains more useful for those who deal with the collection of claims, and does not offer a solution to the problem. The government continues to allow public notaries to launch performance due to small and miserable debts, and I am interested in whether it touched the legal tariffs for the executive procedures in which they participate, whether it entered the limit of the level of the tight interest and in the order of the collection still first pays the costs of the execution, then interest, and only at the end of the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17120	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17121	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So through these changes and additions like I said, we're cutting costs, there's no more predictable costs, so there's no more legal costs the way they've been so far. So somewhere around there was a lawyer's expense of 280 kuna, we no longer have the authority and the power of power so instead of a 1,000 kuna debt instead of 900 kuna, the cost will now be around 350 to 400 kuna. As I pointed out, therefore, we are going to go to a complete solution to the Executive Act here, so by proposing amendments and supplementing the law, we show a certain social sensitivity because it is therefore important for us to achieve 2 things. This is faster, which is important for both believers and debtors, so it is a faster procedure and it is cheaper procedure, as well as ensuring judicial protection for parties in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17122	Thank you Minister, you're free for a while now, and we're going to the committee reporter. Does he want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, two MPs will speak, counterpart Miletic and colleague Troscott. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17123	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Malenica, the respected Mr. Bukarica, colleagues, colleagues, citizens must be helped and we want to help the citizens, we want to help a small man, but there are among the blocked minorities who used the system, there are people who believed or did not buy yachts, so they stopped paying back the loans, there are people who bought cars worth a family apartment, and they are among the blocked ones, and then we have a small man, we have citizens who are out of work, we have honest and honest people who have experienced some life accidents and they simply couldn't pay back their debt. They must be helped, and you who are ruling have a responsibility to the Croatian people to separate the grain from the weeds to help this little man. For parents who do not have bread for themselves all the time, for their children, we must help these people urgently. What kind of state is it made? We have an example of a debt for electricity that has increased from 160 kuna to 1,100 kuna, now it turns out that it will be targeted if only one group is to be expressed in such a way while some others will be allowed to continue to take away. What kind of state is it made? What is the principle, and what is the principle of righteousness in the system that we build? Robert Jezic, where's the money? Where's the EUR 5 million? I call the media, where's the 5 million Euros? It's gone and then it's gone with the wind. Where? The guys come across a man in a fake police car, steal almost a million kunas from him, the Croatian public you're looking at and then get a ticket, first work for the common good, the second gets a fine in a year probation, the third gets a suspended sentence but with him it's all much, much stricter, he's got a four-year trial period, the million kuna MPs have stolen. What kind of system are we building and what kind of message are we sending to Croatian citizens? Fellow Members and colleagues, in order to discuss this law, it is necessary to understand what its main objectives are. The government will argue that the law protects the dignity of the debtors and facilitates their position, but what the government says cannot fool anyone. Let's be honest, we're telling the truth. The government is saving public notebooks, not perpetrators. Public notebooks today bring about 600,000 solutions to the performance annually, and the revenues from the implementation account for up to 85% of their annual incomes. And the government wants what now? It and such a system of parasites on the performance at all costs to maintain. Thank you. A fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17124	I'm just asking you to clean up the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17125	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen, so this context given by counterpart Miletic is one of the contexts for which this law is being passed. The second context is the protection of 300 public record families at the expense of 300,000 completed citizens. Now, on what grounds do we now base such a thesis? The arguments are very simple, the decisions mentioned by Mr Malenica are from the Court of Justice in 2017, which also does not exist, does not actually recognise public note solutions, so on the basis of which implementation can be carried out. And two, therefore, does not acknowledge that public executive, public executive decisions can ever be raised to the level of the court, which is actually the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that if there are certain rights and claims, this must, by the principle of contradiction that has been mentioned here, be resolved in an impartial court. And what does the government of the Republic of Croatia do? It introduces the Institute, so it's the Court's Commissioner's institute, which means he's raised the public notary to court level, and European law doesn't recognise it. Secondly, it introduces a prior notification that is nothing else and that is confirmed by Mr Malenica, but rather by the apparentity or simulation of a court procedure called technical contradiction. If European law does not recognise a public record solution as a document and does not put it at the level of public records, to the level of judicial decisions, which is why we are now introducing these two institutions, which is why we are separate from European law if we want to put ourselves in that Europe under all gains. And the third provision is the most recent, which is what I have asked, which is what Mr Malenica said, so he wants to be on the one hand and meet 300 public note families, but he wants to meet the EU with this solution, which is certainly not the most optimal or optimal. For the reason that according to this law now, the commission will be charged by place of residence. Someone who comes from France automatically goes to court and avoids all of these accusations of the previous that occur throughout the process, from public notebooks, to lawyers, to FINA, to a certain bank, etc. He immediately has judicial protection. The Croatian citizen does not have it, but will have to go through this entire torture where from the 160 kuna bill we come to the expense of 1.160 kuna. That's not what the French won't get. And why such segregation? Which is why such transit solutions are being made at all in the end of each new document inflatorically when it is increased will not be paid by Mr Malenica, it will not be paid by Mr Salapic, it will not be paid by the Government, but by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore additional paper in the whole process that can potentially take even longer to mention some consideration of the court in Slovenia. So why don't we go to Slovenia's solution automatically? Immediately, a digitalised court where a municipal company of the type HEP or anyone would automatically digitally send an account or debt to that court that would be separated from other courts. A couple of judges, a couple of interns, no public notebooks, no lawyers, so problems are solved automatically. This is how we will get additional documents, additional charges that eventually wear both weather and financial re-citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There will be no more cost of 1,100 than perhaps 1,200 kuna, and European law does not recognise it. Not only that, it's a very interesting thing to analyze. Just look at the financial reports of FINA, in the first six months of FINA you're losing, over, about 32 million kunas of FINA you're losing. Now somebody has to put someone back in context, why FINA's in loss, for the reason that the moratorium happened on top. And what my colleague Miletic mentioned very well, 600,000 annual performances, 85% of the public records' income. Moratorium on top, so on the other hand, FINA's making money on a coma again, on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So we have two systems that are paralysing on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This system is not fair, it is unfair because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are being extended by the process of resolving this whole problem, which may be more likely to pay, e.g. the more demoted we are than the other citizens or the EU citizens with whom we share this property, and we are saying that we will in the EU by all segments, than the EUR, from the fiscal union, and now we are separated on the basis of the implementation. Which is why, therefore, why certain EU case-laws are not recognised in all segments, but also favours concessionaries, it does not recognise European law, public notebooks are eligible, European law does not recognise it but rejects it. And we are still going to that transit solution instead of going automatically to the solution of Slovenia that they made in a few years, where they avoided both the time and the financial and all these things that we listed here. I think that Croatian citizens, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, deserve much better, rather than having to pay these costs again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17126	We will now move to another debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Just a second for the missus to wipe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17127	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, here's just gonna take a chance so here's 20 seconds at the beginning, today I've called my colleagues IDS to create a big coalition, they've been a little upset, maybe it's not true, but here's what happened to me, we'll see how you'll vote for the budget even though I'm not sure about SDP and colleague Nadj, I think she's on the right track now, and the SDP in the near future to go towards HDZ. We're talking about performances, and no one's ever asked why the executions happen in the first place? What's the reason for the execution? The average salary in the Republic of Croatia here in the last period was 6,796 kuna if I'm not mistaken, here are the laws that the minimum wage in 2021 will be 3,400 kuna net, gross is about 4,400 about. 3,400 kuna and now we have a Croatian citizen who lives on 3,400 kuna, lives in his apartment, is not a tenant not to give 100 EUR, 200 EUR or 300 EUR for the rent. And then that month he goes to a movie once without popcorn, drinks 8 to 10 coffees at a price of 10 kuna in a cafe, then makes his car somewhere, which is not Mercedes, but some Renault 4,500 kilometers, and then pays all the more directs that exist, which are burdening him, heats up more on a blanket less on electricity or on wood, maybe the most warms him up love of country, I have to mention that, if he bought one piece of clothing, I don't know any Armani or something, but he bought something, he bought you some piece of clothing, we would say in Sibenik at the market, on the market, he has no credit and has a cell that doesn't have a Touchscreen but he's still on the keys that he would tell me, and then for a month to stay, you know how much, he's got now, you have on the Internet,... I'll count quite correctly, he'll have 600 kuna, or that man's life for every day you'll have this much, 20 kuna, dear minister, I'll even say, dear Minister, here he is, 20 kuna, here's this much left for him for one day for food. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you even have recipes how to survive the day with 20 kunas, which can be cooked. There are fantastic cans if you didn't know, fantastic cans exist, so you can buy as many as 3 or 4 cans for this, so there are special bakeries where bread is cheaper, and there's one ham that I'm sure almost no one in HS consumes, doesn't eat, it's called ham for pizza is it can be at the price of 19.99 for kilograms, 19.99. Then for us Dalmatians there's a fish called a chest that can get 10 kuna pounds, 10 kuna pounds, so you can make a pâté out of that pâté, so it can be eaten for two days. And so these people survive from day to day with this much money a day. And then these people get the job done. It's their fault if they didn't pay one bill. But now I'm going to tell you a story that happened to me, and it's a coincidence that I'm still a traditionalist, even though I pay electronic bills, I like to get my e-paper home, that bill. And this month as well as a year ago, no account came from T-com, no account from T-com. And then I call T-com and they say yes, but we deliberately didn't send you a bill because we want you to digitally pay us. Okay, I've been able to get to them and I've been able to work it out and they've sent me an e-mail, and there are people who don't have an e-mail. You know why they don't have an e-mail? Because they don't even have a computer. And with these same people, a few days ago, you introduced DVB. Great, a few years ago we switched to digital television, now it's DVB TV. But that's not the issue either, that's what the MOST colleagues were talking about. But you know what's controversial? It's not even a one-time cost of 200 kuna, and I'm telling you this first-hand because I know a few of those people who had to sign and make a payment for EVOV or MAXtv or some third-party lawyer. Why? Because there were no more ordinary devices in Croatia without a subscription. And then you put 150 or 200 or 100 kunas a month on those people again. And now that man doesn't pay that one bill and then he comes to him, at 100 kunas, he gets another 10 times as much cost to do it. But that's the key, 10 times that. Minister, you've been here recently, it's not even your fault, here you are even changing it, so you changed it in a way that will now come maximum, here I am writing what you've been saying for expenses up to 1000 kuna 100 kuna public notebook, 50 kuna lawyer + 150 kuna FINA maximum, means all 300 kuna cost. So if someone has a cost and 80 kunas, for example. A TV subscription will cost him 300 kuna, and that's not fair. I don't think that's right. I wonder often from this place are we normal, state, that it took us, how many years, decades to introduce the notice that you are now introducing. Hey, man, you're gonna be done in a couple of days. Well, then he can borrow money, he can steal and pay for it. So we waited for decades while some were getting rich, while public notebooks and lawyers were getting rich on the poorest and it was only now that someone came to their senses to say let's once again call this man maybe a man is selling some family silver somewhere if he's got somewhere and maybe he settles that debt. The key is the number I like to highlight, or I want to point it out, the minister said we now have 247,000 perpetrators, 247,000, did I remember the Minister well? ... And 233,000 then... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here I apologize, and no 247 was in the past period, and here I was wrong. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, almost 250,000 people who can't pay their bills. The system is definitely unfair, but if we want to solve this problem, we can make life easier for people in a way that we can pass laws like this. But the only way to solve this problem is so that these people don't get into a situation that for today they have these two bills at their disposal, that's the only way. Minister, I'm sure neither you nor anyone in this assembly, so personally I couldn't have done it, I couldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17128	We are now going to the 3rd debate, it is SDP's Club of Representatives, also two MPs, the first colleague of the Grbins, after which counterpart Jaksic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, what has to be said at first is that this law has good parts and that good parts should certainly be supported, and this applies primarily to the expansion of the circle of exceptions. This law has yet another part to praise that there is no fence when technical conditions are obtained, but I'll talk about it later. However, this law as well as many other proposals that the Government has made and which we have talked about in the Croatian Parliament over the past few months again offers to deal with the consequences as a way of systematically solving the problem, which is not. Unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues, the problem of enforcement does not stem from the Implementing Law. The problem of the exercise arises from the fact that in our society there is a huge problem of non-payment, and this problem exists because we have a great inequality in society where a large part of our citizens simply cannot, not that they do not want to, but are not able to settle their obligations. And the state as we have seen, for example, through a debate on a package of tax laws, especially the state under HDZ's authority, is not ready to react because we will again take measures that will benefit those who have the highest income in society, and that will pay everyone. And that's the real problem, and that's the problem we need to talk about if we're going to deal with the problem of non-payment in the long term, which is the problem of execution and blocked, but obviously we don't want to, so then we have to deal with the consequences and then we have to discuss laws like this in the assembly. I will repeat, that the law has good parts, from expanding the circle of exceptions to raising the amount to be applied to real estate, etc., but it does not solve the problem systematically and therefore in this form unless the Government accepts the amendments that we are going to propose because we believe that we can and must fix it, we will not be able to support it. It's just that if at least part of our amendments aren't adopted, at least the key ones for this SDP club proposal can't be us. What I've already mentioned is a big, serious problem is the part that relates to e-mails. Of course, once we change and supplement, especially one that goes by emergency procedure, we can't make a system for amending the law, and we need it. Of course, this change cannot move on to a Slovenian model that would be a good solution for Croatia. But even those steps that were supposed to go in that direction, let's call it a mining e-mail actually don't exist because when I asked the minister when it would start to apply, when it would create technical conditions as it says the law to start using the e-mail, the minister said that the application would only start to be developed and that we hope that it will not be finished for 6 or 8 months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for 2.5 years we have been discussing amendments to the executive legislation so that you today will say that the application has yet to start making. It shows that this is just throwing fog into your eyes. And it would be much more correct for us here to discuss only exceptions and to openly say that we are working on an application and that when it is finished then we will adopt a new system law. And I believe that these exceptions in the Croatian Parliament would be accepted unanimously, but that is not the case. And when the technical conditions will come to pass and when what should be the most serious amendment to this law will begin to apply, we don't really know today, and we won't even know Friday when we should vote this law. But as I said, our support to him will depend primarily on the acceptance of the amendment. These amendments are different, part of them are going to expand the round of exceptions, such as the prize for children, part of it concerns the extra protection of people with disabilities to which my colleagues and colleagues will talk in their discussions, first of all by counterpart Jaksic, and what I will talk about and the amendment we propose is the introduction of moratorium on top. You refused the bill or the government gave a negative opinion sent by part of the opposition, the SDP - the green-left coalition, you refused. Today, however, we make a different proposal. We're giving the government a free hand, so that if he considers it necessary, he can introduce a new moratorium. Not the council, not the opposition, the government. This is what we open the door for, if the government accepts it, that in case a moratorium is needed, it can be introduced, not because of us here, but because of those citizens and citizens whose moratorium is needed to implement it so that they can connect the end with the end, so that they can survive the moon. I hope you'll accept this proposal because it goes in favor of everyone, and in the end, it's up to you. Thank you. He's going to continue his colleague, Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17130	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs above all today, this urgent debate today on this law shows that perhaps we should have been more careful and should have stepped on the ball a little while when we took down the moratorium on top. What is happening today urgently shows that we did not take the right steps at the time, and this is obviously just an attempt to fix things by means of repair, correct and that this corona crisis does not create what unfortunately every crisis has created in this country, which is that the richer they have become even richer and the poorer they are poorer. And that is why we are as the main party of the opposition ready to engage in the debate and with our amendments to see together what we can do to make this country better to protect those people who have encountered this crisis and to show together that we want to be responsible for the citizens of our country. Each one of the 250,000 blocked in the amount of $17.4 billion, each legal entity with $5.3 billion is in some way the defeat of each of us sitting here in this assembly, all Croatian policies are some more, some less contributed to having such numbers. Of course, there will always be someone who cheats on the system and in this model we have a lot of those who knowingly entered into debt and blockades with the intention of exploiting all those holes that we have in our laws and to escape and to remain in debt. If Zdravko Mamić and some much larger convicts have escaped, it is hard not to expect that some craftsmen, entrepreneurs and private persons will seek a model to be rich enough to stay in human debt and that dogs are barking and caravans are passing and they are doing well. That's the kind of law we have. But there are a lot of people here who live from first to first and who, especially this crown crisis literally threw on their knees and simply did not allow them to regularly serve their obligations to the state, to their partners, and to everything else that they have to pay each month to function normally. Because of these people, we need to see how both this and future law enforcement laws can be more just and to protect these people. Because of course there's anger if you're a poor girl, if you're going to sit around for a month or two, you're going to lose some few thousand kunas in your account, and you're watching someone consciously play the law of conduct and stay in debt or worse, someone who gets on the defendant's bench, runs across the border. Therefore, both on behalf of the club and colleagues and colleagues will explain some other amendments, we refer certain amendments to this debate, the first of them is to finally clarify what and within what time we want to get with this electronic route, given that it is listed but nowhere is it clearly worked out how, in which way and in which time it will function. Likewise, when we talk about rewards that we praise that should be exempt from this law, we will ask that it be extended to our students and students, these are not too much amounts and should of course help them. Of course, all of us, in a certain way, are fighting red tape, we must also consider that someone who has money and wants to sue someone, knows very well who they will turn to, someone who has no money and literally saves naked skin, many times doesn't know where to go, so we, too, through our amendments, advocate to go into the application of the principle of economics and principles to help the party, so if someone comes to court and it was for the public notary, that it's not to be rejected but to just rewarn itself. The same would, of course, apply in the opposite case. And of course, what we would also like to clear up with this law, we commend that the principal's amount is rising to 40,000 kn, but we would also like it to apply to these existing tasks because no matter how much we're discussing today, as much as we talk about, there's been an executive storm, and I saw it as the mayor of Koprivnica, and we've been telling people that according to fina's data, some small executions will be in order in January, within two days people started calling us to get their money off the bill. So also this way, because of all those who are under the burden of crisis, we urge that together we make a better, better-quality proposal that will protect our citizens and show that we are ready to use this crisis to make us a better, more orderly, fairer and equal society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17131	Thank you. The fifth debate will be a debate between HSLS and Reformists and respected counterpart Darko Klasic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17132	Thank you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers. HSLS does not support a culture of default but in the proposed law debtors are not equal to that of the so-called. The debt collection industry. The draft of this Implementing Law also has good proposals and is adopted due to the urgency of the epidemic of this current epidemic and the law concerns nearly 250 000 debtors if we take into account their family members, it is almost 1/4 of the population, the citizens of Croatia. But it needs to be complemented so that changes are not only cosmetic and that they benefit both debtors and believers. What I see questionably in this law and what I think is the problem is that the decision of the European Court of Justice which ordered the executions to return to the jurisdiction of the courts as this bill bypasses that decision and declares the public notaries to be the court's commissioner. HSLS suggests that the entire procedure be returned to court as regulated in most democratically regulated countries and that public notaries no longer have any role to play in ousting these debts. The total annual amount of fees for notebooks can be directed to judges and court advisers, this will be far more useful for the work of courts. I also suggest that the limit for the ban on real estate be raised to £100,000 compared to the proposed £40,000 which is far more than it was 20,000, almost double, but also as far more appropriate given the value of real estate in the Republic of Croatia because you can't sell a house for a 5 000-euro debt which I think is far underestimating the value of real estate in the Republic of Croatia and that this is too much. I'm sorry that these amendments and the amendments to the law have failed to change. The 284. paragraph 2 of the existing law, that employers are exempt from the executive procedure, employers do not have the necessary knowledge to comply with the requirements of the executive, nor should the burden of the debts of their workers fall in any way. I therefore propose to amend Article in the new law. 284. paragraph 2 and excludes the employer from acting upon the received request of the executive and also protect with it and the dignity of the workers which is a major problem because now when receiving to work, your employer may request an introduction to your property to see if you are actually in a position to do something or not. The process should also include the Ministry of Finance so as to prescribe that the amount of interest cannot exceed the amount of the principal and to change the order of charge or to first pay the principal and then the costs and interest. And when it comes to payment agencies, a special law should be adopted that regulates the way they work and, by amending the Mandatory Relations Act, prescribes that debt is sold... The discount should be offered to the debtor and only then to the agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this law, I hold the introduction of electronic communication, the fixation of the costs of implementation, the ban on action during the winter period when the citizen is most threatened by the expansion of the circle of receiving the excluded, it is a positive part of this law and better informing the debtors. What I think is urgent to adopt is the whole new Implementing Law because this supplement actually partially solves the problem itself and although there are good proposals, it does not solve the way in the important issues of the costs of the performance, the speed of the procedure as it will not affect the repayment of debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17133	I'd like to delete the pay phone. And afterwards, she will speak for her esteemed colleague, Draga Jeckov, on behalf of the SDSS Club of Representatives. I'm asking you to be here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. At first, it is important to say who these amendments apply to and supplementing this law in general, so these are for all possible and new cases that can be expected to exist, for those for whom no legal solution has been issued. Let's just remind ourselves that in the Republic of Croatia until 19.10, in fact, since 19.10, the executive procedures after moratorium that was introduced due to an outbreak of the coronary virus and as known, this moratorium has been applied to everything except alimony and during moratorium, no interest was even being tightened. The aim of these amendments is to simplify and modernise the executive procedure which should now be clearer, more accessible and transparent for all parties and participants in it. The way it will be done exists, so I will not specifically quote them, we have had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Minister, but a few words regarding the costs of the executive procedure for which we have had the opportunity to hear, they are expected to be reduced in such a way that there are no more costs of issuing a certificate of power and enforcement that was in the amount of 250 kn plus VAT, because it is no longer issued at the request of the executive, but the public notary shall issue it under official duty and within 15 days of the expiry of the period of appeal, so if it does not apply within 15 days of the objection of the perpetrators. In addition, these amendments and additions delete the provisions on determining the foreseeable costs of the executive procedure and introduce a single fee for the conduct of public notebooks in the performance. In order to strengthen the protection of the perpetrators, there is also an introduction of a kind of prevention of the executive procedures of the so-called ‘executive’. With the Institute of Previous Notification, it finally means that finally people will find out in time that they're being threatened by the exercise and will no longer be executed for debt they don't even know about. Public notebooks will send the debtors a notice that will refer them to all possible directions of the procedure, calling on the debtor to fulfil his obligations to the believer within 15 days in order to avoid the costs of the executive procedure and to warn him of the right to object. This proposal provides for certain improvements to the delivery provisions because now, after two unsuccessful attempts, the delivery is done through the ad panel with the mandatory sending of notifications to the contractor in the mailbox and personal e-pretinac, so for those who use it. A few words about protecting the dignity of the perpetrators. As is known, therefore, the decommissionation is not carried out during the period from 1.1.11. to 1.4. or is carried out in exceptional cases. It seems that an exceptional case just yesterday occurred, namely, there was an operation that lasted 11 to 18 hours in the centre of Zagreb, it was a mother who was 60 years old, a girl who was 20 years old, so after 18 hours they were thrown out despite COVID numbers, despite the cold and couldn't, therefore, with their bags they found themselves in front of the entrance because they took away their keys. Cases like this, as much as we try to make this law, the executive law is good, as I said, does not serve anyone honor and is indeed required to do everything to make this legal proposal advance to this, if possible, not come. How did that actually happen? So they did not pay the reserve and therefore the whole process and ran and imagine their apartment in the center of Zagreb was sold for 10 000 kn and of course the new owner threw them out. Now these are those cases, those borderline or frequent cases that this executive proposal should be eliminated. I know of course what I'm talking about, it's about the parties that came to us and the case is just like that, very unusual and I say, it's not an honor for anyone to be thrown out of the apartment during this period. When we're talking about this right now, there's something I want to say about real estate. We see an increase in the threshold or the amount of capital for which the property cannot be run, from 20 000 to 40 so far. I believe that even this new projected amount is not high enough and should be increased because let us assume that it is therefore objectively about 5 300 euros and the real estate implementation is generally carried out in terms of loans and amounts that are almost always far, far greater than the amount mentioned, and then this limit amount is actually losing and meaning. I believe it is necessary to introduce a threshold or the existence of a minimum debt for which an executive procedure can be initiated, because currently in theory they can but, unfortunately, in practice and in practice, executive procedures are initiated for small amounts of debt and even for 1 lip, so that the costs of the executive procedure are far, multiplely higher than the principal amount. This proposal excludes, as we have had the opportunity to hear, the appropriate rewards for workers, the warm meal fees, the prizes for work results, the Christmases, the resurrections and the rest, but what is certainly important to us representatives of the national minorities is that they are excluded and the funds at the expense of representatives of national minorities used to exercise minority rights in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law governing the rights of national minorities if they are paid to a special account for that purpose other than the exercise of activities relating to the exercise of minority rights. It's certainly something we're commending because there were situations that were rather unusual and that caused them to have a problem with having a national minority representative in certain environments at all. As regards the suspension of the operation, it will be suspended under official duty if the officer has not taken any action within 1 year in the procedure encouraging the executive to participate actively and it will not be sufficient therefore for the authorities to send the so-called Court of Justice. rushes like this have been the case so far, they will already have to take concrete procedural actions to stay in the process. The executive law is probably one of the laws around which spears are actually broken most and which causes the most interest in the media as well. It represents one of the greatest tests on which one authority can be found because at the same time it must be taken care of on one side of the citizens, which we have heard there are 233,000 and who owe about 17.4 billion and on the other hand take care of the believers who are trying to collect their claim based on different grounds. For a while, we will see if we are able to balance this bill, so between the believers and the debtors, and at the same time whether we will be able to protect and secure the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17135	I would only ask you to clean up the pay phone and then speak as the seventh respected colleague of Sandra Bencic's on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here's so we can breathe a little bit behind this pay phone. So, in the situation of this economic crisis and the significant fall in GDP that we have had, but also very predictable, in fact a possible wave of discharge especially in those economic branches that are most at stake with this crisis, this potential wave of blockades of citizens' accounts and existential threats should certainly have been avoided and it is really difficult to understand why the government, most of us in parliament, did not accept our application to extend the moratorium to the exercise to a minimum until the adoption of amendments and additions to the Executive Law. On the other hand, I have to say that we have proposed that this moratorium be proposed until these amendments are made and complemented, thinking that these changes and additions will really concern those crucial problems that the perpetrators face during the final procedure. However, I agree with colleagues who pointed out this earlier, it certainly wasn't enough to go to the pointal changes and additions already had to go to the full draft of the Implementing Law. Speaking of which, I'm going to point out again it's strange and we have to ask ourselves who are the ones who put pressure on the government and HDZ that HDZ has given up the completed, completed proposal for a new law that passed the e-consultation, but one year later you're going to invent new changes and additions, dotted, and you have in your drawer a final law. I mean, here I have to say to me, it raises suspicion that certain pressures have been made that this law that has really solved some of these problems that the perpetrators are facing that it was not in someone's interest and that's why you gave it up. And I think we're going to ask that question in the form of parliamentary questions as long as we don't get a concrete answer why we give it up. What we often hear as some myth that is also speculation very often and from this pay phone, which is that a large part of the accomplished citizens are in that position because of some financial investment, speculation, etc., it is simply not true. So, the largest number of long-term blocked citizens are people who owe up to 10,000 kuna accounts, meaning for those daily actually living expenses. We also often hear that these debts are for the phone and the Internet, so yes, they are a significant part of the debt of citizens. And you're giving me now tell me how to make citizens exercise basic rights and access to information without phone or internet? So we had this year's situation that kids couldn't go to school without the Internet because it was online. So we have a situation, so here's the amendment and the addition of the law that you won't be able to apply, that you won't be able to make a suggestion for the performance if it's not in machine-readable form. Some exceptions are to be provided and some exceptions are foreseen as can be made and this was well foreseen in that 2019 novel. I mean, okay, of course we support digitization, but we need to think about people who don't have daily internet access. What is essential in our opinion to include the Implementing Law and the Implementing Regulations? Not enough Executive Act, questions of the Credit Institutions Act need to be addressed, and the Law on the implementation of the law on money assets, etc. Fine law. Because what's the key to what people have to do with this? First, FINA should implement an individualised approach to the debt and debt reprogramme. So this very phenomenon of our long-term blocked goes from this institute where it allows for any kind of debt account and all of the accounts that you have received to block until that debt is paid off. Look, it's totally us shutting down 10% of the country's adult population from financial flows and from the economy. And don't tell me about those secure receipts because when you sit down if you don't have an open bill, the papal sword. You may not even know it here, but some of us know what it looks like to open a secure account. So, the long-term blockades we had to limit in a way to say, if the debt is not immediately charged after the first receipt, the blockade doesn't make sense because it can't obviously be charged and should go into debt reprogramme and allow people to within the appropriate time frame with those wars that can pay off that debt without blocking accounts. Furthermore, it is important to change the censorships of income and other income-bound institutes that are subject to the tasks. We will give the amendment here to exclude all incomes equal to or less than 2,800 kuna from the threshold of poverty per household member in Croatia. Why? As we do not want to throw people out of their homes and create a problem of homelessness in Croatia, we do not want to even push them into material deprivation because in the end, we as a state will bear this cost, pro social benefits to which we will have to compensate. So, only a smarter procedure will we be able to avoid. The key thing is to limit the practice of selling debt. So in the last month, I've received calls, letters and documents that prove that what we said when we talked about the Credit Institutions Act is true. So, we don't have control over the law enforcement agencies, the CNB doesn't control them, you know that. Who controls them? What authority in Croatia is overseeing the financial operations of these agencies? What's going on? People don't know who they owe 'cause the bank sold a debt to demand agency A, demand agency A, to this B, C, D, etc. You no longer know because you are not informed, you do not know who you are in debt to, and your debt grows. So these are the situations that the majority allowed to happen to citizens in Croatia. So when one of our citizens calls someone and introduces himself as some Luxembourg firm and tells them she owes them $10,000 or euros, how come I think that man can handle himself, what does that man say? I never owed any company from Luxembourg, and then explain to her, we bought your debt. Where? On the payroll. It is not true when the minister says that this amendment also contains solutions from the 2019 Executive Law novel, but it does not materially. For example, you have not freed employers from the obligation to carry out the work on your salary, although everyone has asked for it, although that’s what the attorney general told you, and that’s what they provided for in the law of 2019. Also, there was much clearer that the executions returned to court and had judicial control, here it was only at one symbolic level that we could claim there was judicial control. The most important thing you've failed to regulate. So, we said that one of the most important things is that when an exercise is carried out on the basis of a consumer contract, there must be an opportunity for a court to control the legality and dishonesty of those provisions on the basis of which the exercise is carried out. It's very simple for anyone who doesn't understand the Frank case. You have unfair contractual provisions in the loan agreement, you couldn't pay for it, they're going towards you with the performance, you have to have the possibility of the court saying no, I refuse to do this because the contract contains unfair provisions. Neither now nor these amendments to the law will it be possible to do so in such a way as to delay the execution until it is established and the procedure for the unfair provisions of the contract is concluded, and the European Court of Justice said last year that it is not an effective remedy that allows for the implementation until it has been established whether or not it is unfair provisions, you probably know that. So he said ex post protection is not valid, it is not an effective remedy. In these changes and additions, we have ex post protection again. So we also didn't propose to regulate the amount of costs, we didn't guarantee that the costs would fail and we didn't give them the opportunity. to pay off the principal first, and then the interest... [[Intruder President: Comrade Bencic, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17137	Thank you very much. Please clean up. We're going to the IDS Attorney's Club right now, and we're going to speak to a respected colleague, Katarina Nemet. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17138	... My colleagues. [[Speaker not enabled]] We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the executive law, and above all, I have to say that it is a law that has a very big impact on the everyday life of our citizens and that is why we should look at it from a broader point of view. I believe you'll agree that it's a law with a huge range of problems and topics. The number of completed and blocked citizens in our country is unfortunately increasing and definitely needs to work to help these people and ensure that they have a better and more dignified life. When we look at these proposed changes, we can first say that it is about novelties that should lead to some positive shifts in executive procedures. But we see that all these changes are related to the future, and so I ask if there was more to be done now for people who are currently in serious trouble and burdened with executive procedures and blocked accounts. We in the IDS always welcome initiatives to help citizens who have found themselves in an uninvited situation, especially now in this very difficult economic crisis that have lost their income and therefore cannot fulfil their obligations or for some other reason cannot settle their debts. However, we believe that the amendments to this law are not essential and that it will not bring any significant improvements for the most needed citizens. It is good that this proposal increases the number of receipts that are excluded from the performance, but as a lack we see that all newspapers do not apply to current debtors but to those who will become only from December 1st except in the section concerning the free availability of Christmases and other social benefits such as regression, resurrection, travel costs. So, if it is to help all citizens who have found themselves in a difficult situation because of the root of the crisis then another solution should be found, a solution that will address the current debtors, which would be logical, but unfortunately, it has lagging behind. And we can actually say that this change is more cosmetic than essential. And this is the main problem of the Executive Law and the executive procedure in Croatia for many years. The fact that there is always a little change, edits, makeup, but unfortunately it remains lagging behind the adoption of a new, new, over-needed executive law, a comprehensive and sustainable solution, the adoption of a series of measures to address this complex problem, as well as a much greater level of political responsibility and competence, because indeed too much time has been spent on solutions that have not allowed our citizens more significant improvements, and a better future. Digitalisation in the form of an e-formal which will cheapen the procedure of enforcement, the reduction of the costs of the procedure for leaving out the costs of issuing a certificate of power and enforcement, the introduction of a prior notification institute to be sent to the debtor by the notaries, as well as an increase in the amount of the principal for which the real estate can't be launched, we welcome. The question is, what will it look like in practice, and will the debtors see the improvement of this law that the rulings are announcing, and that should be as important as the objective of adopting these amendments and additions? The question is also, what does the amendment bring that public notaries are called commissioners of the court, to whom it suits, and what will all this really mean? On the first one, it seems that the proceedings will be conducted by the public notebooks as commissioners of the court, and in fact, everyone will act as if the proceedings were conducted before the court. I don't know how much and how this contributes to the improvement and progress of the executive process? These changes look good on the first one, but it will only show time whether it is a nicely wrapped gift or really about changes that will positively affect the lives of the blocked and most endangered citizens. Finally, I must express regret that these changes have no longer been made to help the currently blocked and completed citizens. I think that's exactly what this bill of law was supposed to be about right now in these times of the crown of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17139	Now he will speak to a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17140	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, the bill states one claim, the bill protects the dignity of debtors, maintains the balance between creditors and debtors, and protects the rule of law. But I remind you that the government, the rule of law, is not the only constitutional principle. The constitutional principle is also the state of social justice and the social state. So this formula sounds great, but there's one big, big but. In any case, I would initially quote the Ombudsman who has really given a vivid representation of the issue of the Executive Law and says that, in particular in the particular circumstances of the Covid-19 disease epidemic, it is necessary to follow further targeted measures to help citizens, whether they are already under the rule, whether they are threatened by the Republic of Croatia, which will fulfil its obligation to respect and achieve, achieve and protect human rights in view of its constitutional legal provision as a social state and its obligation to take measures to achieve the full achievement of the rights which includes creating conditions for achieving the highest possible standard of living and improving living conditions, i.e. the full achievement of their economic, social and cultural rights which are at risk to many perpetrators and their families. So, the attorney general also points out that we lack interdepartmentary cooperation when we go like this to solve the socially sensitive problems of our citizens. Let's not forget almost 10% of our citizens are in these problems. Of course, both the attorney general and I, as a person who has been in this house for a long time, welcome and always welcome the reduction in the cost of the procedure because they are often caused by multiple increases, an increase in the basic debt in which the execution occurs. Now let's cut the law a little bit. The changes in the law itself were said by cosmetic nature for the reason that my predecessors here spoke because in 2019 we had a more complete, more complete law, of course with a minimum cost reduction, but we welcome 27 changes in the hope that there will be 28 amendments to the law that will meet some announcements from before the crown. The report on public consultation is a combination of the voice of the profession and citizens, but responds to proposals and enquiries to the detection of the unclosed early Republic of Croatia, which I have already said is the lack of inter-resorship cooperation. Every ministry works for itself, every law stands like a desert island. If you have a problem involving more than one ministry, some agency, and the solution is required under more laws, forget about the solution, forget it. Forget it because you won't even see it. As Dante at the entrance to hell leave all hope to you who enter the forests of Croatian regulations and laws. Let's go back. The subject is the end. Someone suggests that first you should pay off the principal then interest, the answer is not to be governed by this law. Someone complained about harassing the agencies, the answer is not in our jurisdiction. And so on forever. The problems arising from the performance cannot be dealt with only by the Executive Act clearly, but must be taken into account at some point, and best, when best, during the drafting of the bill itself. Not an ex-post mind after, during the making of the proposal. It's hard for me to listen to frightened old women and old women and I'm almost among them but not in their situation that begs me to tell anyone, anyone to stop calling them from those paying agencies. What they're doing is not reminders, it's unsupervised harassment and no responsibility. Every month, a man pays some amount to pay off 150 kuna, and they call him and say that he could pay you 250 a month to pay off, pay off the debt, and he hasn't had a washing machine in five years because there's no repair. If an individual were to do what the agencies are doing, he would get a restraining order, contact, and possibly some punishment. Let us not encourage criminal behavior and deepen the misery of our citizens. If an individual were led by it, he'd be a criminal, and under the cover of the agency he's not already allowed. I wasn't a populist even when I was a younger politician, I certainly won't start being a politician now. Debts cannot be forgotten, nor deleted, I don't blame the people who are looking for it because they're looking for it in a country that has written off millions and millions of debts a lot and a little more faces for those who could pay and those who did it with criminal intent. I remind more than 80% of the debtors owe less than 5,000 kuna. The answer to the question why they can't get rid of it, our citizens can't be asked only in finance and economy, not in the Mandatory Relations Act, but only in the knowledge of how our citizens actually live. What I want and what I will always stand for is for the Croatian Parliament to return to practice that sensitive social issues of citizens are being dealt with by law packages with in full consideration and problem-solving by Croatian citizens. Not segment by segment, so we don't have the whole picture, but the package to experience the problem and solve the whole, the whole picture. In particular, with the Executive Act, this would mean clear rules of play for all involved and debtorial relations. That there is no safer in the debt-religious relationship or that the believer is also at risk when the debtor is unable to repay his obligations properly, due to sickness, death, joblessness. You know, it's hard for me to hear that some retired man was a bailiff and that he's paying for someone who died or left the country, we, we have it. So it's not the constitutional principle, I'm going back to the beginning of this story, just the rule of law, but social justice and the definition of Croatia as a social state. That's what we need to come up with to fight poverty. I agree, here's who said, 2800 kn, it could be 2600, it could be 2700, it could be 2900, as agreed, but first we have to make a deal. We need to determine the level of poverty that no one does. No one in this country does that, and there are institutions that have to do it, we have to protect them. So, in the fight against poverty in this law and in other laws, there is no word, there is no, there is no and I don't expect it to be soon and I don't expect that we will soon become a social state and a state of social justice and we can. We have every prerequisite that we can be, we can just look at what they're doing in our neighborhood and learn a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17141	He will now speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, respected representative Vesna Vucilovic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17142	I would like to thank the President of the National Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Secretary of State, my fellow Members and fellow MPs. What to say after colleagues of Hrelje except that 400,000 of our pensioners have received less than 2000 kn and the poverty threshold is 2800. It is a devastating picture of the Croatian daily life. The Homeland Movement has already repeatedly pointed to problems related to the current Implementing Law. Too many participants according to this, too much compensation, are the biggest problems related to this executive law. The moratorium on the application of special circumstances caused by the epidemic caused by the coronary virus epidemic did not solve the problems but only delayed them. In the meantime, new executive proposals have been launched, and this is largely related to the remuneration of directors. Since the start of the epidemic and the economic crisis that this same epidemic has caused, we have a new 50,000 unemployed. The question is what's waiting for us in the coming months. By the end of this week, we will have a GDP decline projection for the third quarter and it is certain that the figure will again be two-digit. We are in a situation of extreme uncertainty because the crisis in the economy is conditioned by a health crisis that the world has not seen for a long time and therefore do cosmetic changes again and here we all agree on this executive law, which is essentially not right, really doesn't make much sense. The more the fees related to the implementation of the application will be regulated by the regulations or sublegal acts, and these fees and their height are the biggest problem. We are all responsible people, and we are aware that debts must be paid. It is crucial to pass a law that will leave people who are not guilty of their own doings without work or income, and unfortunately there will be such ones, and unfortunately they will be. It is vital to help such people overcome this situation. The law we have suits certain stakeholders, let's be realistic. They charge their services through carrying out the performance and so that the basic debt increases and not twice as much as far away. This law does not regulate, in any sense, one item that is extremely high and that is legal costs. These costs are in an extremely large disproportionate proportion to the underlying debt. Especially when it comes to smaller amounts of basic debt. Part of the executives themselves draw up proposals for the performance and one part for the job hires a lawyer. With regard to the tariff fixing the cost of drawing up a proposal for a performance, the legislator should set a uniform recognition of the cost to draw up the proposal for a performance. Of course, it remains unclear how it is possible that in utility companies, cities, public enterprises there is not one of the legal professions sufficiently qualified to draw up a proposal to implement. You get angry when we claim that just the cities, public enterprises and municipalities are polygons for entanglement of similar personnel. With all due respect to those people who honestly do their jobs, this fact still confirms the practice of political humanization taken over from the South-Communist times. It's a mental set that some parties inherited, others took over, further perfected. The proposal ahead of us says that the executive procedure will be carried out by electronic means, quickly, efficiently, with small costs, and in any case every normal one will accept and commend. There is no indication that the number of participants will be reduced except that public notebooks will become commissioners of the court, colleagues have already talked a lot about it, and I will not look too much at it because it seems that it is much more important to keep public notebooks throughout the process than to reduce the cost of carrying out the tasks because the EU does not recognise the executive procedure carried out by public notebooks. It remains completely unclear why we continue to fix a law that simply doesn't work. No repairs and repairs will improve it. Instead of passing a new Executive Act, we do some partial solutions, fire measures that will leave a series of irregularities again, and we don't know the most important item at all, and that's the amount of compensation. The members of the Homeland Movement have initiated a procedure for the assessment of the consent of the Executive Act with the constitution and have asked the Constitutional Court to suspend it by emergency procedure. We believe that 3 months is more than enough to pass a new executive law that will provide everyone with equality and social justice guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Our citizens have not recovered from the past crisis, and we are already in a new crisis that is once again threatening new account blocks, cancellations and pay cuts. At present, this blow has been mitigated by generous measures from the state budget, which rely on the Shore Programme funds, but also have their own limitations, is neither an unlimited pool from which we can take from. Croatia has no fiscal capacity that other countries have because as we can see, our public debt is increasing rapidly. Through these changes, we try to improve the protection of the dignity of the perpetrators, reduce the costs of the process, introduce certain positive changes, and we warmly welcome this. In doing so, we must stress that the law is becoming more complex, more and more non-transparent, and that ultimately increases the level of legal uncertainty that is too great in Croatia. We believe that these changes will not properly regulate the issue of implementation, and we continue to believe that the only solution is to adopt a new Implementing Law. And how many of us have We heard from other colleagues, he is already written, so we do not know what is waiting? Homeland movement is a new party. We have not participated so far in the adoption of any law regulating the enforcement procedure, and we will not participate in these cosmetic corrections of the Implementing Law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17143	Please clear the pay phone. We have two more clubs and then we're gonna take a 10-minute break to air the room, so another 20 minutes, a 10-minute break, and then they're starting individual debates. Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17144	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State. We have before us amendments and additions to the Executive Act and the executive procedure is indeed a complex procedure which we can actually say that the problem of the performance and the citizens being implemented is in the focus of both these governments and earlier governments, and I think that no Prime Minister like Andrej Plenkovic has really devoted so much time and brought up so many solutions, but we are still faced with a whole series of problems where these things should actually be solved. It's not just a black white story, it's sad stories and those execs who lost their jobs, so I can't pay back my debts, sad stories and those who got sick, so I can't pay back. However, the sad stories of both the religious and the executives are small, for example, the OPGs whom someone has not paid off, so they have no money and no funds to pay their own people. Sad stories and those underage children whose parents don't pay child support, so they're forced to go into business. Therefore, this story has its very different dimensions, and therefore the Executive Law is a law that addresses the issue of execution in all countries of the world, therefore forced, forced fulfillment of any non-money or money when this fulfillment does not go the voluntary way. I'd say these amendments and the additions to the law are good, they're on a good track and it's true that we've already made the law and that this law here in this assembly in the past actually had two readings and many solutions with two readings in that law are supported. These amendments to the executive law, as far as I can see, are actually on the trail and the basis of that, what was affirmative of that law was laid down and here in these amendments of the law is actually put in place. All those who say that these are cosmetic applications, changes, cannot agree with it for the purely reason that this law provides for electronic, therefore the purpose, predicts digitisation, which I think is already in itself one huge, huge step and way of working the notebooks, courts and all participants to be an electronic fill-up of forms and further distribution between them, it really creates one speed, and it is indeed a completely new process. And what I want, in particular, is to apostrophy from this law, one better notification of the debtors or the perpetrators, because before adopting a solution to the performance here, it is an obligation to inform the performer, yes. There have been a lot of complaints in the public that people are intoxicated accounts, that they do not know in principle that they are obliged and that this law removes exactly that and this law prescribes that the debtor should be informed, and that when only the decision on the performance is made then there is that 15-day period where an objection can be made and when an objection is made then the matter actually goes before the court and there is no automatic blockade and there is no exercise in the sense of how, how it actually does so. What is also very important is the expansion of the circle of those inexhaustible incomes that cannot be done. As we know in the recent amendments to the 2017 law, this threshold has been increased with, with 2/3 wages, pensions and other receipts to ž, but now it is actually still expanding that the circle cannot be completed either by Christmas Eve, or by a whole series of receipts of field supplements, journals, etc. Receipts which is actually I mean quite a good step. The minister here spoke very clearly about the costs to be regulated by the regulation, but what is important, for example, the costs will indeed be reduced when, in the structure of these costs, for example, there are no large initial items of the composition of the proposal for the performance that depended on the value of the performance itself and could often rise even to several thousand kunas, now it is actually filling the pattern and there is no such cost. It also accounted for the cost of obtaining the power of decision, now given the digitisation there will be neither. So, even in that part, a big step was made and even a comparative is given as it is in some other countries. I think that this provision is also good, and that the notary throughout the process becomes the Commissioner of the Court because we have such a solution in the desert procedure, so the notary as the Commissioner of the Court makes decisions and makes solutions on behalf of the court and on this side I don't think we should have any more problems in assessing this system before the EU court because the Court of Justice has just asked and said that it can't take notes in this way as it is today to accept it as, as a judicial body. And the second thing that the EU Court has asked for is actually the contradiction of the procedure to, to the adoption of a solution. We therefore, through the possibility of being informed and through the obligation to inform debtors, have actually now and this segment, so this segment can very much react. I would say that this is one continuity of the efforts that the Governments of Andrej Plenkovic are doing to make this issue as regulated as possible because let's remember there in 2016, '17. There were 350,000 blocked people today it's about 230, 240,000 so a hundred thousand less. In order for this to happen in 2017, let us remember the same thing were very strong amendments to the Executive Act, but there were 3 new laws, so the amendment was to the Consumer Bank Act where a simple, rapid process of consumer bankruptcy or personal bankruptcy was introduced, where individuals who had been blocked for more than 3 years or longer than 3 years could actually get out relatively quickly. Let us also remember that the government has written off claims based on tax and some other decisions, it has written down up to 10.000 kuna, and this example has been followed by units of local self-government and many public companies. So, the whole series of measures has been taken to facilitate and relax this situation related to the performance, including this Law on Moratory of the Addiction which lasted 3 months, and yet three others argue that it will continue, but in these 6 months we see that many jobs have not been lost, we see that the government has actually given a lot to pay and to recover the economy and that Croatia has achieved good results. And we also see that in those six months there was no flow of legally tight interest. I agree with this law that this is the first step towards one whole law and that the proposal that has already been here has taken those good and favourable things, but we always have to make sure that the implementation is one procedure in which we have 2 relevant rights. One is the right of the executive to settle his claim completely legitimately and another is the right of the perpetrators to be in one procedure that guarantees his dignity, which means that the executive procedure is carried out for the perpetrator in him the most acceptable and least harmful way. I think it's all these elements and all these instruments that are offered in this amendment to the law that we've achieved one, one of these precisely such balances. Of course, as far as it's concerned, there's also been a long-term blockade, this one provision here that says that if in a year based on this blockade nothing has been charged or anything has happened to suspend the operation because there is a more proactive procedure of the perpetrator himself that we think is right because the whole series of executions in these hundreds of thousands has just been the result of inactivity. And in these previous laws, for example, the law on the amendment of the law on financial assets, let's remember that measure that said that everything that's been blocked for 3 and longer than 3 years, and nothing happened automatically was deblocked. I think we need to do a parchment to see the executions at this point and the blockades where they are most often, which are the causes, and then it actually approaches one whole change and this one to bring this whole new law and even on the trail of what it was, but in any case it's very good that digital performance, that the electronic performance and the basis of this law begin to live and that all of these actually values that are put inside, that protect the dignity of the perpetrators to be applied by then, because that's how we're actually going to get to one of the most painless ways to get to a better system of performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17145	And we are going to the last debate of the club, the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Dalia Oreskovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17146	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the representatives of the proposings, the Government and the ruling majority above all, I would like to say that in your policies you are credible as to how credible all corruption affairs are, all sucking and stealing public money with which you have turned a country full of potential into a enslaved colony and its citizens to the inhabitants of the lower order. By the start of the crown, around 250,000 were completed and blocked in Croatia. I don't know how they survive at all, but I do know that your authority treats them less valuable than small-tooth cattle. Shame on you for your hypocrisy, for the kind words that you use your slogans and your programs, words that then disgust each other's use to us like that. the word ‘safety’. There's nothing but false and seemingly secure in this country like it's fake and seemingly everything you're in public with. That's the law. The apparent and false help for all those who expected the government to rise up and boast with its program called "safety", hear the cry of those who are in the shackles of execution and blockades, and often not by their own guilt and who day after day have less hope of finding such a solution and a way out of limbo and executive hell. Dear Justice and Administration Ministers, by coming to the House with such a bill at all, in a country that I say before the Crown had 250,000 completed and blocked, shows that you have neither knowledge nor courage nor honor. Please resign if you are unable to resolve the problems your portfolio is in charge of because you are not up to them. And I have nothing better to say about your colleagues, about the other ministers. For example, Finance Minister Zdravko Maric recently said in an interview that the problem of the completed and blocked did not arise overnight. That's right. It's been wrapped in that bench for at least the past 10 years if not longer. The problem did not arise even because of the bad solutions in the Implementing Law, and therefore, in themselves, changes and additions to the Implementing Law cannot solve the problem. The problem arises from the collapse of the economy, the disappearance of jobs, the penetration of the corruption of clientelism and nepotism in all the pores of the state and society, the failure of the state and the absence of institutional control mechanisms over the work of financial and credit institutions and a whole series of other reasons for which it is all overly guilty and responsible HDZ. Since the correction of these problems requires a change of government, the changes made and blocked by this law unfortunately remained something they hoped for as the last straw of salvation, but even in that you brutally failed them. So according to FINA's data, in six months. While the moratorium was in effect, around 210 000 executions were received for implementation and 170 000 more in the public records offices. And what does the law that we are going to discuss today mean for everyone against whom the executive proceedings have already been initiated? Absolutely nothing. The procedures will be completed according to the provisions of the old Executive Act, which is well written in the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Well, then, what have you done for all those who, before the crisis, have been caused by the spread of the pandemic of the coronary virus, come to a situation where they are unable to meet their obligations but are also indirectly unable to participate in the labour market and contribute to the economic development of the country? By turning her back on this group, the state gave up not only its constitutional character of the social state, but also gave up its working and creative potential. On the side and the fact that the government is hypocritical, senseless, irresponsible, cold, aside and that there is no hearing for those who should be cared for, this government has shown that there is no hearing or suggestion of opposition and that those proposals that came from the right and those who came from the left political spectrum. And this opposition sought to extend the moratorium by warning of the fact that we are moving towards the peak of the coronary virus pandemic, in which the number of those who have lost their jobs will increase further, without income, without perspective and without the possibility of meeting their obligations. Likewise, the government has ignored institutions such as the attorney general, ignoring professions such as the Croatian Bar Association. I will especially stress the defeat of the fact that, with this law, you have submitted a proposal for it to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Therefore, the need for an emergency procedure has been explained by the consequences resulting from the spread of the coronal epidemic in material and procedural relations in progress and in the context of executive procedures and insurance procedures, so the proposed amendments propose measures to increase protection of the dignity of debtors or perpetrators and measures to ensure that the executive procedure and the insurance procedure is carried out by electronic means quickly and efficiently at as little cost as possible. Well, now that the introduction of an argument is a lie, no longer needs to be read. There is nothing in this law on improving the material and procedural and legal position of executives already in the executive procedures. It refers to a contractor who will only become as I have already said, after the law comes into force, by 1.12.2020, as the minister hopes. I'll ask you a rhetorical question. Are you HDZs able to come up with one single law, one single measure without it being the generator of new inequalities in society? Obviously not, but this law is one of the most bizarre examples, according to which the executioners are divided into two categories, into a group in which the effects of the coronary virus create a new supposedly better material and process-law position and to those old ones that the state has clearly written off and another evil like the crown no longer changes the situation more or less, significantly to the worse, or to the better situation in which they were in the past. It's a shame to me. And the greatest hypocrisy is seen in the way this law allegedly respects the EU court's ruling of 26 June 2019 in the case of Kuhar v. Adikko Banka. Therefore, it is disputed that our courts and when deciding on a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a mortgage agreement concluded in the form of an immediate enforcement of a public note, they do not have the opportunity to examine whether the provisions in that contract are unfair and that, on a proposal by the performer or by official duty, they postpone the exercise. And then what happens in this new law? This law adds a provision allowing the application to be postponed until the application for non-compliance with a plea has been lodged or a public notation document on the basis of which the application has been initiated but for a maximum period of up to 30 days. And only when, depending on the evidence available, there is a likely nullity of one or more provisions. Now, this term "probable integrity" will be interpreted in our practice as all other legal standards are interpreted, meaning from case to case, both when and then for whom, and then when those 30 days expire, new measures will be taken in some new procedure on some new criteria and so much on legal equality and reasons for trust in the judiciary. So even when the EU authorities point out that something with our judicial system and the judiciary is wrong, it means nothing to the rulings. And then what is this law all about? A big, colorful lie. Croatia has long been yours for a complete solution, Croatia is crying out for a step that unfortunately neither SDP's authority has been prepared, and this HDZ is obviously not interested. So when there's no idea what else HDZ could say or what should be done then the listing and stringing of flossulas, one, two, three, four like that, digitize. Well, yeah, an electronic form is obviously the biggest newspaper of this law that's supposed to simplify the system of execution. To my question, since the minister said he wanted this law to enter into force on the 1.12th, was the system and application developed? It's not. When will it be? Well, we'll figure it out, by the book, we'll figure it out. To remind again what Minister Maric said, that the problem of the completed did not arise overnight. Well, it's not, but then what have you been waiting for? Why didn't you come up with such an information system already? You've been talking about digitization since Karamark, but I'm more concerned about whether you know what this digitization means, which means prescribing an electronic pattern, and how we can bring it into line with Article. 4th amendment and supplementation, i.e. it should now be art. 39. The law of law. So this is about the prescribed patterns, it's contradictory of that provision that speaks of what a proposal for a performance should contain. So it says in favor of you actually didn't come up with this system of electronic patterns as something that automatism fills, and then anyone who doesn't need any help, so then that unification of the process itself would really lead to the acceleration and unnecessaryness of all those intermediaries like the public notebooks, it's actually the true depth of the lie that is underneath all of this. And when we talk about cost cuts, so several times today you have boasted that these costs will be reduced so much that you will no longer be charged with a certificate of power and enforcement. Well, anyone who's ever had any kind of executive procedure knows that's not the main reason and the main cause of high costs. It arises from the wrong order of payment of claims. Croatia's Bar is still proposed to Mr. Bošnjakovic in 2018 to pay first... /Conversation off./... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17147	Comrade Oreshković, thank you very much. ... We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Bacic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17148	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, counterpart Oreskovic, insults MPs in HS and minister. And I would tell her Mrs. Oreshkovic, politically speaking, you are still in the mangers not to say in diapers, and you have managed to disrupt the entire political space of Croatia. In three days you've changed four parties, no one knows what party you're in anymore, not to say you're forming a party without enough members, past the public, you've changed seven, eight parties /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague BAčić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17149	Thank you very much. So my assessment is that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague was very marginal when she spoke to the minister and I believe that... That's right, say it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just a little session of colleague Oreshkovic, what's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17150	I'm sorry, I won't say anything. Let me just say another cartoon...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17151	Comrade Oreshkovic, how are you acting? Have a seat. ... I won't even give you a warning, you're being rude, please sit down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, tell someone there's no honor for that to have arguments. I didn't hear any arguments, so it was an insult. But we hear insults differently, so I'm not giving any warning. And in the second part, you're doing more replicating, so I don't think that was right either. A colleague, Kristo Vidovic, also reported on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17152	Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, a colleague disrespected his colleague Oreshkovic, telling her that she is still in the mangers regarding political education or what you have already said, it is purely demeaning. If you can't defend yourself from not being able to explain why and what you've been doing with Eve Sanader's black money for a year in drawers, you won't be saved by any attack of female colleagues in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17153	My colleagues Kristo, the same thing as my colleagues, Bačić, were more replicas than the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Peovic called if I'm not mistaken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17154	Yeah, it's got nothing to do with what's going on right now and you're starting to argue, but it's the violation of Rules of Procedure. 236 for not including the amendments. So we received from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System as a Green-Left Block Club the answer that the Committee is not in charge of our application to assess the non-accountation of our amendments to the budget What we are interested in which the procedure is, given that according to the Rules of Procedure, we should put their opinion on the agenda, and they have excluded themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17155	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, there are other instruments that you're going to let me know, so I'm asking you in writing to address President-in-Office of the Parliament's office and I'm going to see how I can help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17156	Why did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? Because it should be included in the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17157	I'm asking you fellow Members, who are new to this session, you're violating the behavior that is common here, which is to take your word for it when you decide. There is a procedure, ask for a word I give you. I can't talk to you because there's a lot of MPs here and if it were to become a practice, it would be chaos, so please don't do anything that violates a decent and correct debate that we have here at HS. Comrade Bačić, here's another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vidovic Kristo, was injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure are insulting me personally again. I am Mrs Vidović Kristo very well aware of how I should act by law and in the case you speak of, you know very well, but you deliberately insinuate. It would be good to talk about that money to question your members of the club who and to what extent they used that money, then you might be performing differently here in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17159	Okay, and this was more replicas, but you had the right to defend your honor so I won't be giving any warning now, so don't laugh, I didn't give you a warning, either, just like I didn't give my colleague Boric. ... Well, you can, but it's also something that's not particularly polite, but I'll leave it to you and your education you have. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we'll take a 10 minute break and we'll continue at 17 hours and 10 minutes. It's 4:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17160	Okay. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.00 HOURS]] We're moving on to individual debates. It's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Rose of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17161	The Honorable Vice President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. I welcome the amendments to the law aimed at reducing the administration and reducing the cost of the executive procedure, as the proposer claims, but whether this is really going to happen in these amendments or are once again just a cosmetic change, with an emphasis on political collection of points. So let's move forward, therefore, during earlier discussions, on amendments or the creation of a new Executive Act, there was a proposal to establish the obligation of the perpetrator to pay the principal first and then interest when implementing the exercise. If inter-resorship cooperation between the ministries in Croatia worked, then the parallel amendment of the Law on Mandatory Relations would allow for an amendment to the provisions and the law that would allow the payment of the principal and only then interest. Statistics say that 60% of all pensions in Croatia are in the poverty range, pensioners are less than 2,800 kunas over 100,000 and mostly single. These are data, official HZMO data from September 2020, which are carried out at the level of 1/4 receipts, leaving them with less than 1900 kuna for life, well below the prescribed limit of poverty for singles. An increase in the protected part of the income would allow pensioners to still have as much age as they do. In order to protect the perpetrators, it is necessary to amend the Art. 18 laws, and all in the sense that the enforcement procedures will be initiated before the new law enters into force, will be completed in accordance with the provisions of the law which was in force at the time of the entry into force of the application. The article needs to be amended in a way that continues to be followed by new procedures, so I'm making something easier for the Executive Act. Thus, we would prevent a large number of perpetrators from being left without the only real estate or roof over their heads. I believe that the public is familiar with the sale of debt to non-intentional loans to companies that later harassed families, including underage children, putting pressure on countless ways. Everyone knows the amount of the agency's loans, and then they demand the payment of the total amount of the loan, no matter how much the debtor has already paid the bank. There are cases where the court showed a major greater than it was when the loan was taken. For me, this is bordering on criminal acts. Let's remember the items where during the Covid measure the only real estate of a 5-member volunteer family, a disabled Homeland War. In July there was also an assessment of the value of the property by the court and the appraiser. Since the previous enforcement procedures will be completed under the old Implementing Law, the 5-member family in this case will unfortunately be left without a roof over their heads. If the aim is to obtain a fairer executive law, the applicant should have introduced an institute for the protection of the judiciary and the guarantee. There are often situations where when debt is made to the user of the credit he used, several other families of the judiciary and the bailiffs are executed and blocked even though the creditor has mortgaged on his property as collateral. The perpetrator must be able to know earlier that an executive procedure has been initiated against him. For various reasons that occur in practice, the perpetrator does not know about the procedure at all because he has not received any written and there is certainly a questionable legal certainty. The provision to place a decision on the court's advertising board is a complete act of the rights of the perpetrators. One of the quality proposals is certainly to follow the statute of limitations according to official duty and thus reduce the number of executions because it would prevent the collection of illegal costs that are obsolete, and a large number of perpetrators, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, do not know that they themselves must be called on to become obsolete. These amendments were certainly meant to protect both craftsmen and to ensure that the underlying assets needed to continue operations and after the blocking of the accounts. We know that in the business of craftsmen, it is privately and businessly united with the owner of craftsmen. So it often happens that all trade accounts are blocked during the performance, and so the business jury accounts are fully blocked. In this way, the possibility of a craftsman to continue operations or exit the blockade shall be taken away. So the blocked craft does not have a protected business account with the provided underlying assets to continue business. Given the still worrying indicators of the poverty of citizens, and especially in the circumstances of the crisis caused by the Covida-19 disease epidemic, it is justified to consider a proposal for adoption of solutions which, in order to create conditions for the right to a decent life, would prescribe stronger protection, or exemption from enforcement for those benefits that ensure the dignity of our citizens' lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17162	Thank you, too. You have one replica, you can wait, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17163	Your Honor, here he is, the Honorable Minister Malenica. I would like to make it very clear that I will personally refer the amendment for Croatian teachers, for the Croatian Union Matica, we want to inform the public about the need and importance of the exemption of trade union social aid, Minister Malenica, from the exercise and this way we ask you and all the political options here in the assembly to present this proposal, to support it, forgive it. Trade union social assistance is a kind of social support, and the Executive Law, if I have noticed correctly, does not explicitly recognise them as receiving an exemption from the exercise. The teachers asked me to talk. The unions have asked me to speak in this honorable home and Ministers of Malenica please do so on behalf of all these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17164	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17165	Thank you, dear fellow Miletic, for this replica. So I will agree with you, today in this debate a very large number of these so clearly and unequivocally detected citizens who come into an uninvited situation will be presented. I personally believe that Croatia actually needs a new, whole, fair law on performances which will firstly comply with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately this document is not, therefore it is not socially sensitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17166	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Brumnic's turn. Just a moment to freshen up the pay phone, freshen it up a little bit, here it is, freshened up, so you can, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17167	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we should actually talk about this executive law that is before us, and when you look at the position of the HDZ Club, there is only one answer. This law is wrong, we need to pass a new law, and this new law needs to be more quality than this. I asked the minister a question in the replica to explain to me why someone needs to change 27 times something that is essentially wrong. It doesn't matter who, when he's wrong, today we have what we have and today we do what we think is best. And that's why it saddens me every time the minister comes out for this pay phone and then says what someone should have done 10, 20, 30 years ago, without him fixing it today, but he's driving the same way today. This law that looks like the kind of car that got hit by the engine, but then the minister tells you, but look, it's going to put a new halogen light on it, so it's going to be better. Now, what we were actually supposed to do. We had a moratorium on our hands, and we had this moratorium on top of us for reasons that are still ahead of us today is the coronary crisis and this is the situation in which a person would say all Croatian citizens, and some in particular in a difficult position. During this crisis, or during this moratorium, which was logical that someone had extended it or brought it to the end of the crown of crisis, the end of the corona of the crisis should have been implemented by this new law which was made as it should have been. Because what's going on with this law? This law did not give those to whom a person owes money because it is extremely difficult for them to come to this money, or those who become once completed and go into a blockade from that blockade to no longer come out, nor do they benefit the people who are accomplished because these people become citizens of the second order in this country. And that's second-class citizens in every sense of functioning. The fact that one part of the social income will be removed from their performance will not actually help them much, they will only be able to buy 5 blankets more with a kilo of bread. And that's why talking here about every single point of this law, I think it's completely pointless. It would only make sense for this government to re-impose the moratorium and to prepare or have a new law at the time of that moratorium, to send that new law to the assembly and to pass a whole new law that will not introduce a third entity into this game, and under that third entity, I mean public notebooks, lawyers and agencies that buy debts, but rather the relationship between debtors and creditors will solve the state as its key task. Here, I won't be longer, I say to me it seems simple, everyone here has said practically the same thing, we need a new law, we all witness that the Slovenian model is relatively simple, and out of that simplicity it usually results in what is in some way just. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17168	Thank you, too. Mr. Bartulica's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, in preparation for this topic, I asked a number of people, and they all told me that we actually have this law, this kind of executive law because the courts are too slow and ineffective. And that's why a different model was to be found not to go all the way through courts because citizens would simply wait too long, etc., if they just didn't, we don't trust the efficiency of our courts. Many, many have repeated and pointed out to me. That's what I'm saying at the beginning because the report on the work of the judiciary we're still waiting for to come on the agenda, it's already being delayed I don't know how many times, but for months it's actually been the announced agenda point, and there's no way we're coming here to discuss it in this house and the State's Attorney's office. However, he would not repeat what has already been said by many, but rather say something about the causes of this condition. So our citizens of Croatia who have left or have already left Croatia often state as a reason, one of the reasons, that their accounts are simply blocked, which are blocked. They have no other exits because jobs outside Croatia are unfortunately new jobs and so are leaving. However, the fact is that the same people, our citizens who live in Germany, Ireland, Switzerland, Austria do, to Canada, America and so rarely are in this situation, are rarely blocked, very rarely I have heard even from others that Croats are social cases in these countries and so on. They just get along, work, and they're not in front of each other. However, the situation here is different, unfortunately. Why is that? I think it's one of the main reasons, and I'm going to keep repeating what public administration is, so the whole state generates poverty. Too big a share in Croatia has a state, public administration spends too much in an unreasonable way. I will repeat, we had a debate yesterday and today on the state budget, it consists of more than 28,000 items and certainly there is a big space to improve this and I am sorry that no more amendments have been accepted. However, I will continue to underline that the state not only generates poverty so that some regions are already half empty or empty but does not give a good example to citizens. So, it is expected and it needs to be paid back, we agree that it should be paid bills, it is not disputed, it is excessive to actually talk about it, but the state should also settle its obligations. We see the state of health, how much debt has been accumulated for years and years because reforms are not being implemented. Some court decisions are not carried out, for example. For overtime fees to nurses and doctors, there are judicial decisions, they are not implemented, and citizens on the other hand are expected to settle, and unfortunately many of these accounts refer to current directors, electricity, gas and the like. So in relation to the rest of the EU where our people live and live and create, I will repeat the question why is it so difficult for us, right here, because they don't have these similar problems where they come and start from the beginning? So I'll repeat, I think we need a smaller public administration, a smaller government role in our lives, and that's the beginning of getting out of this unfortunate situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17170	Thank you, too. Mrs. Devereaux. Karolina Vidovic Kristo is next to have his debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17171	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the implementing law Croatia has in 2020. including these changes will certainly be the subject of scientific research by European universities titled "How to legally and effectively force the population of a country to leave their homes and force it to emigrate." The executive law allowed a strange beak called FINA powerful structures to carry out terror over citizens through a strange beak. Give me another EU country that has an institution like FINA. FINA is a financial agency that is the successor of the former communist social accounting service. The SDK as it was short-lived was a tool of the Udba, which was controlled by the Communist Party by financial service controllers because, as we know, communism as a decadent social order worked on the principle that everyone controls and deunifies to make a minority i.e. The communist nomenclature could rule. As we know about the usual institutions in Europe, but in many parts of the world, people's banks, tax administrations, different inspections, in the meantime, new institutions such as HANFA have also been created because of changes in market conditions. However, the role of FINA is beyond any norm of European legislation, and it is obvious that it serves to love children and relatives of powerful people and of course to harass citizens. This law, as well as its proposed amendments, is unfair but also contrary to the European Directive on illicit business practices. Namely, selected public notebooks which e.g. they work for Zagreb Holding, HEP and similar companies make a decision on the performance, they deliver it to the FINAs for implementation, and FINA without determining the facts and notices of the natural or legal person over whom this solution is carried out. Today, we have learned from one media that the public notebook Mladen Jezek whose wife made the verdict in favour of Zagreb Mayor Milan Bandic is allegedly doing mass work on behalf of Holding and the City of Zagreb. It is, of course, a scandal of unprecedented proportions in every organized society, and it is not only a conflict of interest but also a crime. The same public notary Jezek also works for state-owned companies, and is reportedly in close friendly relations with HS President Gordan Jandrokovic. On this example, we see the insolence and grampility of the ruling structures in Croatia which, for the reasons of their unholy intentions, do not allow the Implementing Law to be in line with the European Directive. The law would have to give adequate protection to the perpetrator both on time and on notice in such a way that the perpetrator is truly informed that he will be subject to forced payment. However, here it should also be pointed out that the costs of the commission charged by lawyers and notebooks are beyond any sense, unfair and offensive to common sense. So how is it possible that the cost of the execution can be higher and sometimes up to 300 percent of the debt itself? But let's look at each other's European countries, for example Germany, where the German Supreme Court, in one case, ruled that the creditor must take care not to compromise the financial capacity of the creditor or, in any other way, to act harmfully against the credit user. Of course, the decision of the Supreme Court there is an automatic and judicial practice that is required to be followed by all judicial authorities and all financial institutions in Germany but in Croatia, the SDP, the SDP judiciary, does not know judicial practice because knowing it would not be possible for judgments in which the laws apply to poverty as in the case of lockdown and farmer from Varazdin until the powers of the Janaf Club of Law simply do not apply. See how financial institutions, in this case banks, harm their clients through the FINA, because, as we have said, banks must not harm their client's reputation or reputation. Here's an example of Adikko Bank, who is the heir to the scandalous Hypo Alpe Adria Bank. If their client is behind payment of credit rates for more than 10 days, the bank sends him a notice that he naturally charges, but not only sends to the client but also to the judge and the bailiff. Furthermore, if it is 20 days late, the bank automatically sends it to the client, the judge and the bailiff again, and then happens to end the dead-cold war three times. In addition, it should be added that the way the credit account is fully opposed to European legislation because the Liechtenstein but strange beak FINA is doing all of this finely and the CNB does not react, although I will repeat it, the European directive on unfair business practices in Croatia law and must apply. The introduction of the reasons for these amendments is cited by the EU court's ruling in favour of a Croatian citizen and against Adikko Banka. I'm asking you, did the CNB react to Adikko Bank? Is this bank being punished for breaking the law? And is the competent member in charge of the work license? Are Croatian institutions from the Government, CNB, DORH etc. aware that they are obliged to protect Croatian citizens and enforce laws? I am absolutely against these amendments because they are insufficient, because they are unempathic and are contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens and are opposed to European legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17172	Thank you, thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, ma'am. It's a baby doll.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kristo was injured by an article. 238, because by the name of which he calls the judiciary, it is an ugly way, it offends both us MPs and here the present minister, and it is my opinion that it is an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17174	Okay. I don't think it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, but okay, let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boric will have her debate now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17175	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This government likes to use one powerful syntagm if needed, and that's dignity and dignity. And behold, those who have done it have earned it, and it is said that they will guarantee the dignity and dignity of those who do it. It is very interesting how that all governments so far have not made sure that they protect the dignity and dignity of citizens who have become perpetrators because if they had better regulated the laws, and colleagues have spoken here, this is not just about the Executive Law, then we would not have brought 250 000 and probably more people, in the position that today are the perfects whose dignity and dignity we should defend. I'd like to say a few words about this defense of dignity and how the unregulated work of the claim collection agencies and how it might have happened that our fellow citizens even when they pay off the debt to the agency for that payment, they don't know either because the agency didn't or did inform the FINA, so they still have their account blocked. Often they don't even know who they owe to anymore because the debts are handed over without control, without informing the debtors, which we talked about today so that sometimes several agencies are calling them, not only to offer their services, but to do something that is truly illegal, so like their colleagues used to say, they almost urge them to pay off one lip, 10 kn, and then when they do it, they admit in such a way that they are debtors, they don't explain to them at all what their position is because they certainly count on their earnings. What's absolutely inadmissible is that we have to limit what's the profit of these sold debts, we know that, well, everyone needs to make some money, as is possible, so if the debt is paid by e.g. 30% of the value, then you can't charge the debtor and 100% because that part is actually considered an extra profit. Most importantly, we need to regulate the position of agencies that we do not need to talk about because we are a common market that even that profit comes most from Croatia itself. We need to make, edit so that there's a commitment to remove the blockade the moment the debt starts to be paid off, when the debts are closed, FINA has to notify and we don't know why the CNB doesn't become the instance that would also control the demand collection agencies. Too much in what is really just cosmetic change, it is too much to say that someone cares about the dignity and dignity of the perpetrators when they will all earn on that is the perpetrator, and here we have heard that indeed from the debt of people, of 10 kn they were not even informed of, that with different charges, notable and not noteworthy, the debts go 1000 kuna. So we're not talking here, and we've all repeated that no one's talking about not paying our debts. But we do know what situation our citizens were in, and if this government has shown that there is hearing, and at least for the dignity of people to survive during the crown, we can't see why the moratorium that introduced itself didn't delay one more time until the law of order was passed that would truly protect the dignity and dignity of citizens who would no longer be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17176	Thank you. You can stay because Mr. Hrelja was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17177	Dear colleagues, you're right when you say you need to arrange the business of the Agency for the collection of claims. So, it's inadmissible racketeering, it's not a market, it's not who they're going to cheat on, we have to be a state. Secondly, a very simple solution to what needs to be done. You can't sell debt under old age. If the debt is out of date, no more trading with it, no more forcing someone to pay 20 kuna or 50 kuna to activate it, so it should be banned by law. So it doesn't make any sense for a healthy society to allow that kind of business. And lastly, moratorium only makes sense if moratorium time wants to be used to bring the necessary Social laws to protect citizens. [[Intruder: Package.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17178	Here you go. Here's the answer. [[That's right, I agree with you.]] Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17179	We've seen that we're talking about the synergy of everyone.....incomprehensible... so that this doesn't happen to us. It seems to us that on the one hand we're patching something up, and on the other hand it's starting to leak, so we're going to see what's next, and really, you've used the word racketeering, it's going to be that in this executive law, even those who should act legally, they've learned that the only racketeering is worth it in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17180	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will now try, although I do not agree at all with this concept of going with amendments and additions, we are already in favour of going with the novel of the whole executive procedure and the Executive Law. We're going to give, or we've already submitted nine amendments to how much we're trying to fix things with the fact that I want to take advantage of this moment to report to the public that at this point we can't give those, all those proposals concerning the key things in the executive law that bother you because they're not covered by the amendments and the amendments to the law, so these amendments would be rejected. As regards this proposal, first of all, we ask that, when determining the costs of the procedure, except that they will now be limited by the regulation, we ask that the court may also deduct those costs which it deems incomplete or excessive in view of the type of costs, so that the court can assess the relevance of the costs so that they do not accumulate and thus increase the overall costs of the procedure, and that the minister must adopt a Regulation on costs within 30 days because it is prescribed that he must bear it. We ask that it be adopted within 30 days and that, when determining costs, it must also take into account the principle of proportionality of costs and value of demand and the principle of fairness. We also ask that the court initiate proceedings, not only in the case of an executive, but also in the case of a credible ID. So that the full enforcement procedure should be returned to court at least in the course of the enforcement procedure, and in this direction we were also giving amendments. We also ask that the court must, not that it can, but that it must, under official duty, examine the legality of the contractual provisions on the basis of which the executive procedure is initiated. In particular, in the case of consumer contracts, and in the event that it determines the likelihood of unfair contractual provisions, it must be able to postpone the implementation until the final court decision, not for a period of 30 days. For the reasons that this will only be in line with the decision of the European Court of Justice, which said that when a court in charge of carrying out a mortgage contract concluded in the form of a directly implemented public instrument, if the court cannot refuse that exercise because of the existence of an unfair contractual provision, because it must follow the contents of an executive document, that it is not considered to be judicial control of the legality of the proceedings and that this is not considered an effective legal remedy for citizens who are under such an exercise. So, it's clearly in the court's decision of last year on mortgage loans in Spain. We are also asking that a proposal for a real estate enforcement can be refused if the principal of the demand for the purpose of which the aim is sought is disproportionately less than the market value of the property. So, what are we looking for? We ask that there is not only this criterion of 40,000 kunas, because as much as cheating absolute amounts in the law is bad for me, for the simple reason that what is there is, it is a ratio of value of demand and value of real estate. You can have a real estate worth that, 5,000 euros, right? It could be a garage, so it's not a problem. But it can be an apartment worth 100,000 euros in which people live, and then that threshold of 40,000 kuna is not proportionate, you understand? So let's implement a consistent principle of proportionality and say that the court must, by official duty, establish proportionality, that on that basis it can refuse to perform, and that always, in any case, it must be so that, yes, I know what you mean, but you have Article 2 that says that the court can. So, he can at the request, we're asking that it's in St. 1 and that the court has to do it on official duty. That's the difference between our proposal and yours, and then we're asking that the bottom line is below which it can't possibly go into real estate implementation of 75,000 kuna because we consider that a value of 10,000 euros is of some kind of rational value. We also added the benefits excluded from the exercise, where we put field supplements and maritime supplements, trade union social aid, but most importantly, we put in place for the first time a censorship based on the poverty line and we are looking for and, in that sense, the amendment is written, that the available income equal to or less than the amount of income of the poverty margin according to DZS data for the year preceding the year of implementation because that amount can be changed from year to year. I hope that at least some of these amendments will be adopted in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17182	Thank you. Mrs. Barbara Antoliæ Vupra is now up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17183	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Therefore, it is not possible to discuss amendments to the executive law without first mentioning the moratorium to the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. Five weeks ago, this moratorium expired, and our citizens are again under pressure and new amendments to the executive law will very little affect the improvement of their financial situation. Therefore, we are again in favour of extending the moratorium to its performance. Let the government look up to the Slovenian government that has brought a longer moratorium to make life easier for citizens in times of crisis. And now you'd mention something about the same cost of the execution. I was talking about this on September 10th when I called on the government to reconsider the extension of the three-month moratories, and then I cited the costs of public records fees that amounted to only 1,000 kuna, amounting to only 2500 kuna and an amount of 25,000 only 90,00 kuna. These are the amounts of public note fees which are largely a small part of the total costs of over-exploitation. So, where costs are to be sought, there are, of course, legal services, and there is one trap, because we're going to be in the rule of law that has yet to be passed or proposed by the bar of attorney, the minister who brings it, just maybe new and higher amounts of those same bar fees, and then we're going to ask ourselves what will be the cost of new charges. Also mentioned are the several times criticised costs of FINA, and we make a fine mistake of VAT and earning money on citizens. The second point is that, in addition to this whole system of problem-solving citizens, it is necessary to make sure that we also propose a Law on Mandatory Relations that will change the order of payment of claims in its amendment. So we know that communal services are the ones that are first charged, but where entrepreneurs who paid their workers and who often remain free of the collection of their claims and often simply don't even go into it and sometimes fail and all together contributes to the anti-enterprise climate and contributes to the fact that legal uncertainty in our country is much greater than it should be that we settled this issue better. And in the end, I will repeatedly repeat that debt and non-payments are never and will never be resolved by any law, but by increasing the standard of wages and standards for citizens and the lowest ones because our citizens point out that every month they lack just a few hundred kunas, not a thousand kunas, so that they can pay their commitments neatly. Thus, by changing the tax policy itself, the government could greatly reduce the number of those facing it. I would also particularly like to highlight a problem that has not been solved, perhaps also concerns civic education, which is a systematic education of citizens to better manage their home budgets. It seems funny to someone, but consumer rights and the way finance is something that needs to start learning in schools, and that is how to act preventively and well on our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17184	Thank you, too. Replica, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17185	Dear colleagues. I'm taking the opportunity to further argue your claim in a way that the public notebooks got this job done in 2013 when the courts were buried with almost a million and a half executives and things didn't move from place to place. In order to negotiate the terms of the EU entry chapters, we entrusted the job to the public notaries, and they became the most pro-pulsory part of the implementation of the report. Therefore, you have accurately diagnosed that they did not generalise higher costs, especially small performances, and they are more than 85% below 5,000 kuna. For these others, I'm not talking about them, and so they regularly ended up in court, they had expenses, the costs of lawyers and court costs, of course including the costs of the state of VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17186	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17187	Thank you very much. So we also heard why public notebooks are so often mentioned. Thus, those few who are dolls in grain, those who have done their job fairly and appropriately, must not be bad examples and guides in how to solve the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17188	Thank you. No more replicas, now it's Mr. Grmoy's turn, no more replicas, it's all right, Mr. Grmoy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17189	Thank you. So this is one of the most difficult laws a government has passed. What's the problem is that we constantly have some kind of change that doesn't change the integrity of this executive law. A new executive law was promised. You promised by the ministers and the ruling majority. I don't know why you gave it up. And what we have here, a colleague said, as a position we cannot actually give amendments because only certain items are being changed around the Executive Act and we cannot give amendments and all of those proposals that we would like to make. When amendments to the executive law were here, while MOST was part of the ruling majority, you did not want to accept all the amendments that we had made, which then President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic sent an open letter asking for the very changes that we, as part of the then ruling majority, requested, but unfortunately it did not help either. And what we can say doesn't agree here with those who claim that participation of public notebooks did not lead to an increase in costs, I think it is, I think that costs could be much lower if this process was carried out through courts, so there are enough judges and officials to do this job for all of Croatia. When you talk about how much it costs in Slovenia and other things are more expensive in Slovenia, it will be more expensive in us because you are obviously heading towards the introduction of the EUR at a time when we think that the Croatian economy is not ready for it, that the purchasing power of Croatian citizens and the situation in which our economy is still not ready for the EUR, which does not mean that it may not be in the perspective, but simply you are breaking things over your knees and you want to ask Croatian citizens to introduce the EURo. What we've suggested here is clear, to throw public notebooks out of the system of execution, to return to courts, that would be the right, the right to reform. You're increasing the amount here, that amount has increased several times. It is the same as Maric offers us tax reform in several circles, then gives us crumbs, throws, so I guess people, people are satisfied, but that's not what we want. And well here someone before me said that any executive law will not solve the problem that people can't repay debts. There's also that people live beyond their means. I was on a show at "Open" that then it turned out like everyone in debt returns had, I don't know, bought a better cell phone than they could afford or a better car. It's not like that, that the situation is just so simple then we wouldn't have this kind of problem, the problem is much deeper, people just barely connect the end with the end, the wages are low, our economy is in trouble, you don't relieve enough of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen. We had, and we recently actually sent a membership law for HOK and HGK, the government refused, and here we will see when it comes here for discussion, a lot of what burdens our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, the simple state administration and the state is too expensive. To serve all those you've arrested, you've hired, then someone's got to pay for it. Unfortunately, our citizens are paid, paid by craftsmen, paid by entrepreneurs, and then when a crisis like this happens, we have witnessed many crises, people get in trouble. Let's hope this thing around the crown of the virus is going to take as short as possible to get fewer people into trouble as you simply had this moratorium on top of it, you've abolished it, then we've warned you that this should have been legally determined to be in 3 waves, suddenly it's all sitting on people's neck, you didn't want to, you didn't want to listen, now please go to further discharges of our citizens, go to further discharges of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, it's the only way we can not at all run an economy now but keep something from our economy at this point, then perhaps in perspective, towards a better situation and in the economy, and then in society, and then there'll be less execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17190	Thank you, too. Stay, you have several replicas, the first replica of Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17191	Dear Mr. Grmoy, you said in your statement that the fees that someone stated from a public note from Slovenia were, so I'd like to ask you, were you referring to certain amounts or to some of the statements that were presented today?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17192	So I thought and the attitude is very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17193	Mr. Grmoy, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17194	The attitude is very simple. The whole process would be much cheaper if it were done so means a couple of judges and a couple of employees, much cheaper for our citizens, wouldn't accumulate costs. We have situations that mean 100ths, 200ths of the debt comes to over a thousand and something, and then the situation can be further complicated. The problem here is that we have a constant one-off spiral that citizens can't get out of, there are situations when it's seen that the debt is actually unpaid and it can't last forever, so somehow we have to end it and solve it. So my position is clear, I know here when we were giving amendments, then there were calls from public notebooks, the lawyer even at the beginning supported the SDP and then eventually they retreated, they pulled the manual. So I understand your replica, but things can be better arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17195	Thank you. Mr. Hula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17196	Dear comrade Grmoya, we must make a very good transaction of the system so that we can talk about it. I also agree with one piece with you, that this executive law will not make any better for those who are socially threatened that the moratorium would make sense if something had been done for them by those who are already in trouble. But I don't agree with you that this should be returned to court, it should be precise and it should be said, yes, it can, but when a special court is formed. Your public notebooks will congratulate you to take it from them, that this part of their work is not profitable with these fees, and they will accept you immediately, they will support you. Just, you should also have one dimension here, without arguments we attack public notebooks, but you need to know one thing. If he hits pedestrians at a pedestrian crossing, this minister here, provided the criminal charges will give him suspension and will run out of funds for life, no other entity in this society has such rigidity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17197	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17198	So very clearly, when we talk about public notebooks, we can't generalize and we can't accuse the entire one profession and I don't think they're all used up on this, we know who used themselves. So, that should also be made clear, so I have no intention here of pursuing a witch hunt and calling all the public notebooks in Croatia, I am talking in principle about making the system, and I agree that this should be a special court, so I also said that, a few judges who could handle it. So I don't want to lead any harangu here against public notebooks from this place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17199	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17200	So much of the work I agree with about the criticism of public notebooks, would even add to your benefit the argument that in the public notebooks for a document that will be stamped, which will practically not even look at it, pay 50 kn, and to buy an apartment and up to 5,000 kn, and reminding that before the 90s it was done on a counter where aunts or some uncles would break your seal for a lot less money, means I don't agree at all that some public record chamber would welcome the termination of their services, though, I personally was under the persecution of a public record association where they called us to criticise them and said that only in Nazism could not deal with the public record profession, which was a really excessive statement, but I just wanted to tell you not to tell you that this is too many people living above their options because it's really dangerous postage, more, meaning of 170 000 new ones have been running, water and gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17201	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17202	You didn't listen to me, my colleagues, I said that I was on a show where there was an argument from these government that most people got into problems because of the purchase of cell phones and that, I said it was like that in Croatia, then we wouldn't have a problem and we wouldn't discuss it, I think the problems are much deeper and I made that clear. But when you talk about what it was like in Yugoslavia, that aunts of haters were doing something and aunts of counterers should be paid, they are paid by Croatian citizens. So all that state administration, Croatian citizens are paying and it's not a priority, I know it's your attitude, but it's not a priority that it's something stately, that it's also cheaper. We have a lot of state property now and we pay dearly, we need an efficient system, the state system can be expensive if it serves to arrest party personnel of the ruling party, so it can also be private if it is arranged for Croatian citizens very good. Of course, we'll never agree to that, but you have the right to your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17203	Thank you. Mr. Bull, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17204	Thank you very much. On several occasions, you mentioned in your debate, you mentioned the Slovenian system of the Executive Law, the minister said it was more expensive there, you mentioned that in Croatia, well... imposed euroisation and the euro without a referendum and without a public debate, lead to the accumulation of not only executive procedures but to the purchase of food, goods and all the supplies to which it is traded, which is paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the Republic of Slovenia you violently as a government are essentially imposing Euroisation and you are calling for more expensive in Slovenia, you are not saying that in Slovenia, everything is more expensive because of the euro, not just an executive procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17205	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17206	Well, in Slovenia, there are a lot bigger wages, receipts, so the minister didn't say it to the Croatian citizens, so I mean to compare it, to see how much it is, and not to see how much more expensive it might be in Slovenia that all of these are included in the chain, it's very unserious, meaning I was surprised by the minister with such a statement, I thought he was a serious politician and more responsible, so here I'm surprised, and as for the euro, the euro certainly has positive sides and negatives about the Croatian economy, but what is the key to my colleague Bulj, are we at this point, in this situation, in this crisis ready for the euro? I don't think we are and what we certainly need is a broad public debate and, of course, a referendum on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17207	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Bull's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17208	Thank you very much. Ministers with their associates, respected citizens, colleagues and colleagues. This assembly has brought me no idea how many, not this convocation but a total of how many times it's been changed, dozens of times this law has been amended, the executive law. This assembly has also passed laws even unanimously as far as this is concerned, it is essentially related to this, it is the Law on credit integrity with international features in the Republic of Croatia with unauthorized creditors and unanimously brought it here to the Assembly then with that. lex Scibola so-called when we all unanimously accepted that law to protect our people from the interest that has been banned in Austria where they come from and in Hungary are simply delayed, that their feet in Orban, in Austria, are being persecuted, and in us these people are still being robbed, the cameras no matter what is not respected, no matter what we have unanimously passed this law and we are calling for a constitutional court, on judges, but these people are no longer just overpaid, paid, uncontrollably taken from them, but are now threatened by the execution of their only property. People often call me I'll make another bill, I hope my colleagues and colleagues sign me to go into emergency procedures, to stop that robbery of what we voted to be, that it's invalid. intricacies. And I ask the question of Minister, Ministers, how to protect people, you as executive authority when you do not respect the unanimous decision more, with more votes than the Croatian Constitution has been adopted unanimously, so that some majority of them can be gathered, as former Minister Pavić has now said, in order to raise a number of votes then you voted. Why don't these laws be respected, that's the key question? As for the very mention of Slovenia, I will return to that part that in Slovenia there is a model that you say we are approaching this law, but the fact that it has been introduced into the euro, you are violently introducing it here in Slovenia, means without speaking to the professional public of another country, many European Unions do not accept the EUR because they would not collect among other things and these procedures and, of course, the key issue is discrimination of Croatian citizens over foreign citizens, i.e. We have a public notary mediator here, and in the case of foreign persons, we have the possibility that this is the only solution in the courts, which is discrimination, and we have to solve this problem. And in fact, you've been talking for a long time about, Minister, that you're going to pass a new law, and there's no law in the procedure, we always go with the changes. As far as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, it is mainly the coronary crisis that has shown that simply they do not have the means to survive, the economic situation is difficult, you have put energy into other people's hands, what people pay more energy, you will not declare IGP, so we could protect these people, our fishermen who are also hard to live, you have not charged the budget, and you can also from war damage than Serbia so that our economic resources we do not use to ensure that people have adequate salaries. So imagine, we pay for wind power plants a year, our citizens a billion and a half kuna a year more expensive electricity, a billion and a half kuna a year. And that, part of the club in Slavonska and other clubs with ministers, there is, of course, the Minister of Environment, Former Energy and so on, and they're taking it out, and here we've made discrimination against foreign and domestic legal and physical persons so that the Croatian man is discriminated against in his country. What is this principle, is this the principle of fairness and equality, is it that the EU is that instead of surviving in this area to work on its resources, to use it, it must go outside, it is a key question of the minister, why are you discriminating Croatian people in the Croatian state against the sides of natural and legal persons?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17209	Thank you, time. And Mr. Miletić asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17210	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Radin, Minister Dear Malenica, a colleague even more dear to Bulj. It was an honor to personally run the Independent High School Union as a commissioner in the largest high school in the region in Sušak High School and to fight for teachers' rights. And that's why, both at this time and as much as I have today, I want to talk publicly about the importance of excluding union social assistance from the performance, and I hope that this pressure of mine will have an effect. And here, I hope the minister hears and that it will be all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17211	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17212	So I don't see any reason that the minister won't accept it, I think it will even be obvious if your proposal is exclusively like yours, like you as a union activist you're familiar with the problems of teachers, offended means branches which, simply people who do their job and educate our children, and hardly survive and often fall into difficult social situations and should help them, and you know it best. I therefore do not see that the minister will not, for that category of people of our teachers, educational staff, protect and expect the minister to go out for this speaker and publicly say that he will support our educational staff, in this case teachers and all that is in education. I don't see any reason why anyone reasonable in this House doesn't support this proposal of yours to protect our teachers, our educational employees who are underpaid and take care and educate our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17213	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17214	Well, here, since you're from the same club, so I'll use it to tell your colleague Grumo something, but it's your proposal, so you have to work on a public notary about getting a proposal to do the rulebook, so I'll read you how much it costs. So for a fee of, say, $12,000, you have 400 means of a public notary, that's not very little, is it? These are the figures that say 12 to 15 000, 400 kn from 9000 to 12 000 kn, 300 kn I'm saying, from $12,000 to £15,000 if it's business. [[You can do it a little harder.]] Then you have the 400 kn price of a public notebook, so it's not a little bit, is it? And as for socialism, there were a lot of employees of those aunts who did, working on the register, so I think full-time employment is probably the goal of those who care about that social majority. Are they employed means, do we have fewer employees or more employees, so I guess our goal is to have more employees And that they live on their work, not to be charged. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] public record services so expensive and that we actually raise the price of the commission. [[Mr. Bulj, please respond, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17215	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17216	Well of course it's an injustice to you, here I'll say it one more time,... Discrimination against the Croatian man, according to the Croatian people because the foreigners are excluded from the meaning of the public notary, of course this is not a blow to public notebooks, and many other activities have public powers, even have a monopoly such as some. the assignment of the gas attest in the catering facilities, so they're good... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have vehicles, a vehicle centre that has public authority, not to be registered anywhere, technically done, so there's a lot of problems in the Republic of Croatia with public powers, there's no competition and of course there's good money, there's good money and there's good funding of the political parties in campaigns of those same ones that are inside, and I think that there's too much food chain at the top of our citizens' most endangered and I don't think the public notebooks would mind being kicked out of this system, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17217	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17218	Can I get out of here? Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Yes.]] Dear colleague Bulj, here's a little colleague Peović in, I don't have a chance to answer, so I'm going to answer her, I didn't say that the debts, we're just trying to move public notebooks out of the process and that these costs aren't big and they're particularly high interest costs but I believe that you're well-intentioned, but when you talk about full-time employment, what would that mean, that the state hires all its residents and what, that's the goal, full-time employment? So you open up the company and you hire everyone in Croatia, we'll only have full employment who will finance it. So the state has to be effective, so in the state there can't be people who don't do their job because someone has to pay for it, it's what citizens pay for. It doesn't fall money from the sky, it doesn't grow on a tree. These are the basics of the economy. Sorry, buddy Bull, I didn't replicate anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17219	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17220	But I'll just say briefly to my colleague, Grmoy, that this government is seeking full employment by county, administrations, agencies, so that it goes towards full employment but only with those who have a party card, these others can go to third countries, especially younger people, so that this government is going by direction and direction and direction and the minister does it well to be employed by county, offices, administrations, agencies, that everyone who has a party card, and these others can go the way of Ireland, Germany or I don't know where, even Empty. [[Grmoya raid: they work full-time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17221	Here you go, Mr. Totgergeli, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you know, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17222	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj injured 238, insulting the government to work in the counties, while neglecting to say in the Bjelovar-Belogorian County, the only one that Mayor Bajs was exactly your colleagues from the Bridge who needed to raise their hands there to have a majority in the county assembly and then hired them at the development agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17223	Thank you very much. You know you have a warning yourself, right? It was a replica. Mr. Dretar was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17224	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Bulj, I very much liked this idea of economic prosperity not only for Croatia but also for our parliamentary representatives here, so I ask you to explain to us once again, and to all of us here, how to become public notebooks, because we can obviously make good money, better than a congregation salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17225	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17226	Thank you very much. First of all, here I will be once offered by my colleague Oreskovic to be her assistant, whether, in case, I was in the Janaf case, I might have discovered this problem a long time ago in your line of work and I don't know what to do with you, we'll try to get that public authority because, let's say, let's say, my colleague Milosevic can explain it to you from the HDZ to you on these permits for the operation of the extinguishing machine or I don't know, it's the same public authority, I can get you into the vehicle center, I can count them, so your political option would certainly have a pretty good sponsor, and I'm telling you that if you're going to say that someone from the Most, from me, from my family, no longer works in political functions, neither my wife nor my daughter, therefore in the state administration, and therefore, I have no problem, and these people, if they've done it're certainly no longer in the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17227	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas, I'd like to ask you, either you or Mr. Bolt to step away from the assembly, because there are three of you now. That's right. ... You can't yourself... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, Mr. Bull. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17228	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. When you say we get some rest, what to say about you who are from the 1990s in HS, and always close to power. Well, I'd like you to rest a little, too, but you're 30 and a change of years in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17229	You were very clear, and you received a warning because you did not call on the article. You can stay, you can go whatever you want. Mr. Dretar's up now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17230	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm a domestic, so I'm going to buy you a home story about my neighbor, Dragica, who's been learning to make a pumpkin, and that's an old Zagora cake. She tried and tried and after the fifth unfortunately failed attempt her husband told her, dearie, we're breaking up material. And here we are, the same law we've been trying to bake 28 times, it seems to me that we should have given up a long time ago. What I want to tell you is that the Croatian taxpayer is one good, gentle and calm, listens to everything the government tells him, doesn't complain too much. And let me remind you of an old folk custom, when the house gets paid that custom happens once a month. The pay comes or the old post office brings the family's pension to the table and we're going to split the money where we're going with it. Most often it's a mother, but we're a matriarchal society with wisdom that surpasses all the world's finance ministers' mother kind of stretches and tends to be for a salary, to be for food, for books, I don't know, for registering cars, for sausages, for ducks, for ajvar, but there's something that's an absolute priority that's directed. The old Croatian way of life is to pay the director first, and then we'll see if he has to eat. So imagine what it's like for our man when he doesn't get paid, two, three, five, six months, a year, when he gets fired, and new jobs nowhere in sight, when we take away his pay, and thus the basic foundation of human dignity. I'm talking about 80 percent of the commission based on unpaid directors for basic living needs, electricity, water, gas, telephone. You look around you a little bit, let's move away from politics for a moment, go out on the road, take any city in Croatia and the smallest village in Croatia, and tell me, for 30 years I've been doing comedy, 30 years I've been working to make people laugh. Nobody laughs in Croatia anymore. Our roads are passed by by gray people, deeply existentially concerned people, and that's why we all have to be sad. Believe me, and I'm sure you talk to people too, you hear almost despair. People are in severe depression, it's not easy. The executive law is, of course, another hammer that will come down to nearly 300,000 of them, it will not come down to people who, as the esteemed representative Miletic said brilliantly, bought yachts and did not pay for the wars or expensive cottages, will gather and will descend on people who tomorrow do not know how to buy their children a sandwich for school. And it's a deep and heavy tragedy. I was recently in FINA to hand over some papers, it's 30m, asking why, people open protected accounts. It's not the turn to buy a new car, to pay for a summer vacation in the Caribbean or to order a new playstation, it's the order in which people fight for naked existence. No one's here to laugh anymore, of course. The law as it is 28 times we're trying to pass, and he's still really killing people. None of us are running away from the fact that our obligations are to be paid, but the fact is very clear and crystal here all the time is floating here somewhere above us, and we're talking and we don't see it. Give people an honest salary and 80% of the commission will disappear, give the pensioners an honest and decent pension and the problem will disappear. Let me remind you of a statement by one of the champions of the executive business there somewhere from 2010, which he said, pay your dues in time so the performance won't be like Maria Antoinette. You don't have bread, you eat cookies. That's why, my dear Croatian people, I tell you, they will never understand us. All of you blocked and executed, all of you who are close to it and all of us here advocates of these same people I call on use all the law-allowed methods and procedures to get to the ears of the people who lead this country finally to the truth. This isn't good. This isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17231	Thank you. Stay. Mr. Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17232	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Dretar, you said that people in Croatia are no longer laughing. I agree with you, but they don't laugh because individuals, so here's your leader after all he's inherited in one political party then comes to the people and says coldly, I'm sorry, I have no problem with apologizing for being close to a black bag, which I may have pulled out of it, and it's not funny at all. Like you, you are the leader of people who simply went through everything, have been with everyone, and here today you have an opinion of everything as the greatest righteous among the entire Croatian people. It's not really funny at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17233	Here's your answer, Mr. DRetar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17234	Dear Mr. Ivanovic, thank you for your reaction, but I must admit quite an expected one. Everything I've done in my life, I've worked as an employee, not for one moment representing any political option, working as a leader, as a announcer or performer of any kind of program. My, my advantage over you is the fact that I've done all this as a professional and for many people I've always done my own program and been my own man. You, Mr. Ivanovic, have been smoking in the same play for a very, very, very, very long time, but I'm afraid that this play plays to you all the worse and fair people who are not listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17235	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic. Here you go, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17236	Here, as many have said, the urgency of the procedure is not justified by the very changes that are negligible. It is funny to read government announcements that the implementation of the executive procedure by electronic means will solve the problems that led to the number of 238,125 perpetrators. I agree with everything that's been said, with everything that's been said that measures aren't radical enough, that they're cosmetic. In addition to several provisions in this amendment, there is nothing that would give hope that in a year or two we will not bring such urgent changes again. But what I do mean is the fact that many who are now in a more favourable position of the opposition and criticise the government would do exactly the same as ruling today or little or nothing. And why is that? Because they bring down the question of poverty and morals and others to technical matters. One is hysterically accusing the ruling for, as if it were a moral issue, not a polit-economic one, and poverty is most of the consequences of some evil people who have prevailed. I suppose we'd be praying to God for the salvation of the poorest to solve our problems. Others, on the other hand, do not see beyond the electronic implementation of the performance as if the issue of over 200,000 completed people was a matter of digital billing. In short, while some would pray to the dear God to help us, others would further improve the effectiveness of repression against the poorest digital tools. The truth is that the question of those who have been executed is not simple, but if we are talking about exceptional and extraordinary circumstances, we must be prepared for the extraordinary solutions that are necessary if we do not want to keep 5 to 10% of the population in the blockade on a continuous basis. Several such solutions are, first of all, to stop being on their own for the purpose of seeing an opportunity for additional earnings and parasiticing of numerous notebooks, lawyers and debt collection agencies. Heavy interest must be the remuneration of creditors for a period during which they cannot be used with their assets, but must not be an instrument for the creation of lifelong debt slavery. The debtor must be allowed to directly pay off the principal debt, not to pay off tight interest for years without touching the principal, so the first thing is to pay the principal first, and then to tighten interest. Secondly, in the Workers' Front, we believe that under no circumstances the total amount of tight interest should rise above the principal's amount. So the second is to limit the growth of tight interest to the maximum amount of the principal, which of course cannot be solved by these amendments and by additions to the Law on Implementing Law. At the same time, if the state already points out the urgency to take care of the well-being of all must be ready to write off tight interest on the utility accounts, so water, electricity, gas. Erasing, therefore, tight interest is required for these municipal accounts. Four, it is necessary to redefine the protected minimum, it cannot be arbitrarily determined by this or that, in this or that percentage it must already be related to the minimum cost of life. So the minimum cost of living that I constantly remind myself of that cannot begin to count in Croatia. So they're needed so they can cover at least their basic life needs for the debtors. The protected minimum shall be in accordance with the minimum cost of life. And five, the particular problem that has arisen has been the Agency for the collection of claims that all the funds make for the bad claims they bought from banks, the way they sell claims, the right agencies, the handling of the debtor's data, all this must be subject to strict regulation in order to avoid the abuses that occur. Therefore, the fifth is the regulation and sale of debt to the Agency for the collection of claims by a special law in order to limit such trade. For example, in the first half of 2019, banks sold 4.2 billion kuna claims. Finally, here will be another highlighted problem of public notaries, the Workers' Front has repeatedly pointed out that the Institute of Public Literature needs to be abolished, which is why the president of the public record chamber compared us no less than with the Nazis. Public notebooks are the ones most profited from the existing situation and as long as the executions will serve to impose their costs on the solution of this problem will not be, and the purpose will serve until the moment until it is completely taken from the jurisdiction of the public notaries and returned to the courts. If the government in this proposal to throw out one step in the executive procedure in front of public notebooks, imagine how much we would save to end it completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17237	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17238	Thank you. Dear counterpart Peovic, I will use this replica to you, so I failed to respond to this scandalous statement by Mr. Ivanovic of the HDZ, who accused an MP of the Homeland Movement that his leader, Miroslav Škoro, was close to the black bags while he was in HDZ, actually admitted that if one of the representatives of Škoro was close to the black bags, where were Jandrokovic, who was at the head of the Foreign Ministry which was dealing with the Fimi Media, where was Branko Bačić, the president of the club who was at the head of the ministry dealings with the Fimi Media, where was the representative of Boris who was in the ministry dealings with the Fimi Media, where was Kalmeta and others if one representative, HDZ was near the black bags? This is one scandalous statement, a confession of crime in HDZ that had to be here with This place to react. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17239	Thank you. Thank you. Before I give.../incomprehensible/... Peovic, I must give my word to Mr. Boric, who sought the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17240	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Grmo was injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238, again, he can't behave in the assembly and he calls people who have nothing in their lives with him, but it's his kind of political agenda, unfoundedly accusing him of no Miroslav Škor or Davor Dretar, but he invented it. Maybe he found it in himself because he, he's known to be the gentleman whom Mr. Jambo invented and transferred from one school to another at the request of his close kin and today he shares us here lessons... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17241	You picked up, you picked up after... Mr. Boric, Mr. Boric [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Please. [[Intruder: Hurts Rules of Procedure.]] Please, Mr. Boric. Mr. Grmoya wondered where the various MPs were, I don't see any damage to the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, I see a replica. He's replicated, so I can't tell him anything because he's replicated, and unfortunately for you, Mr. Boric, you know that, I have to give a warning. And please, please, so it's an experience now, he's got a warning. Mr. Boric received a warning. ... All right, let's go now and see how you get a warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17242	So, Mr. Boric, I'm in politics, injury. 238, ever since 2013, everything you've had to pass on to me, the false accusation of a war profiteer, I've only signed up for a contest at my school and who the principal could have received from me and then that war profiteer you made up, that's what she tells me, that's, that's under every level, and you answer whether you were Close to Mr. Boric's black bags. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17243	Thank you very much, thank you very much, it was a replica, and of course it's a reminder. It was a replica and it was a reminder. I hope there's no more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, is there? Okay, thank you. Let's move on. Please answer the question, Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17244	Here's what I'm gonna use. Then Mr. Grmoy, I'll take advantage of [[Intruder: On replica.]] This opportunity that you used for this replica to answer how what you now had the opportunity to see just illustrates what I said at the beginning. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] So we're either morally accusing or claiming to be some kind of lack of expertise. I agree with you that there are a lot of problems there on that side, I would say that there are a lot of problems there too, so I agree with that side, but other than this moral corruption that we are constantly accusing each other, there is systemic corruption. And this systemic corruption allows Mr. Skorri to sign luxuriant contracts every year over and over again, and that there is absolutely no criminal advantage behind it, everything is legal. So here we go, one thing's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17245	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's your turn, mrs. Excuse me, Sabina the Voice, vice president of this House. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs. President. Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17246	... gender. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable Minister with the Secretary of State. As counterpart Grbin has already said on behalf of the SDP Club, the conditions for supporting this bill are serious consideration, i.e. respecting some of our amendments. He was talking about two, I'm going to devote some time today to explain the 3rd, but first of all, I'm sorry that you didn't accept the green-left bloc proposal and the SDP that because of the newly created special circumstances that are still going on and in some ways they're extended, not by our will, you haven't complied with our request and the bill, to extend the moratorium on top. Too bad, too, we're sorry that you gave up the novel of the new Act of Oversight, we see, you have it in your drawer, you don't want to take it out. You've set yourself up for this time. But we're where we are. The fact is that the proposal for this law has in some way sought to speed up the procedure, i.e. the implementation of the procedure at a minimum cost, although it is true, it is not clear whether this will actually happen because what the government's share of the influence on the establishment of legal prices and services is, and how it will be, in fact, sublegal act or regulation also defined, public service prices, we cannot know at this point. We need to trust you that this is exactly what you're saying. Likewise, it is also correct that you are trying to improve better information for the perpetrators by this law, as well as the introduction of a 4-month moratorium into the delicacies is something that we welcome. Here you have devoted a good part of the bill to expanding the base of exceptions to certain categories, so you especially stress the use of the rights of national minorities stemming from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, you have extended the exemption from the commission to Christmases, regresses, jubilee awards, etc., etc., and to financial fees related to victims of crimes. What we are asking you to do with our amendment is to extend the exemption to another category, and this is to require that the enforcement of the exemption and income of persons with disabilities who are recipients of a personal disability or care allowance, as well as the income of parents or holders of persons with disabilities or children with developmental disabilities who are recipients of a personal disability or allowance for assistance and care, up to the adoption of laws that will regulate the introduction of an inclusive supplement and a law that will regulate personal assistance. And I don't want it to be heard in this debate as a replica that your government has increased the aid and care allowance to 600 kunas, or a personal disability to 1,500 kunas or parent status to 4 thousand kunas. The fact is that if we exclude these categories of special assistance that people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, and their families are most at risk of poverty. And the same is the fact that people with disabilities in 70% of cases are unemployed, and if they are in the labour market then they are unfortunately doing low-paid jobs because they are convicted of professional or auxiliary occupations, and pensions, if they are receiving them, are mostly disabled pensions and these are very low incomes. What we must not ignore is that really if a quarter of not only of these receipts are completed but also their incomes that they have that these persons in most cases will be brought to the brink of existence. Why? Because they are actually forced to allocate high amounts for rehabilitation purposes due to an undeveloped social service system, due to restrictions on access to orthopedic and other aids and rehabilitation needs, and are rarely forced to raise loans to obtain the most basic orthopaedic aids such as wheelchairs or arthrosis. Not to say that they were also disabled in their right to assist, personal assistance because the first, 1 November, tenders were issued or completed, contracted commitments from the tender, the new ones were not called and very often these persons were forced to hire personal assistants on their own cost, and they rarely cost up to 7,000 kuna. I ask you to be socially sensitive and respect this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17247	Thank you. Stay here, Mrs. Devereaux. The baby's looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17248	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, I'm surprised at the amount of lies you've just said. It's simple, and I'm surprised that you don't know that these fees you mentioned are actually exempt from the performance. It's scary that you don't know about it, and about those other fees or let's talk about receipts, parents' salaries, guardians' salaries, and then, about that, you know. If you do not know the problem of disabled people, stay out of it. It's been a long time since the government's ruled out, and it's written nicely in your article. 172.St. 1st Point. 3., all benefits from the welfare system, read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17249	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17250	Your Honor, ma'am. Lukačić, I am surprised by your inability to listen, and also always by trying to degrade anyone who comes to this pay phone and warns of any problem related to assistants of children with disabilities and persons with disabilities. I warned the countless times behind this pay phone not to pay fees to assistants for children with disabilities, you attacked me here to pay off what the ministry owed them. So don't do it. I know very well what I'm talking about. I also said in my statement that I'm not talking about fees, but I'm talking about total incomes, not just persons with disabilities but also their guardians, and also their foster parents, and you'd be better off, that's my appeal to you, to keep your promise and to do everything you can, to put pressure on your government to pass the Law on an inclusive allowance and personal assistance, you promised him 2018, now we're in 2020, none of that. So direct your energy yours not to cheat on those people anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17251	Thanks, time, time, no more, uh... You can't have replicas now. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Replications can only be given while it's speech. Mr. Tomislav Tomašević is on his way now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17252	Thank you. We colleagues and colleagues today don't discuss all day, and here's how much, almost 19 hours, about the Executive Law, we're actually discussing the superficial law because these changes, like many MPs before me, are really cosmetic. If we really wanted to change the whole system of performance in this country then we'd go to the new executive law and I guess, I guess 26 attempts to improve something and fix it, and then it'll fail to this extent to go in 27 or 28 attempts, I guess that's enough signal that we can't fix it any more than we need a whole new system. A lot of MPs have talked today, a lot of things we almost all agree with, so it's obvious that there's a consensus, that more, more or less consensus, that it's more or less clear to everyone what the problem is, that it's more or less clear to everyone who are solutions, but nevertheless obviously because of someone's interests it's not implemented so far. That, if you ask purely at the level of some basic sense of justice of any citizen on the street whether it's fair that the cost of the commission is greater than the debt that caused the execution, everyone will tell you it's not. So any political ideology, any, I don't know, class, degree of education, if you ask citizens people will say in a basic sense of justice that it's not just. Also, if you're asking if it's okay that often the debtors don't even know they're done, is that okay? Is the system of information adequate at all to the debtors that the enforcement procedure has been initiated or that the solution has already been reached? It's not. Is it fair that people don't know that their debts have been sold to the Agency for the collection of claims? Everyone will just tell you that it's not fair, that the thing you ask anyone in your gut is going to say it's not right. And then I'm curious because you, as a government of continuity, and you as HDZ, had already been in 2019. The almost new Executive Law, presented it to the public, was much better than these changes was not perfect, but much better than these changes, went much further and deeper and then for some reason you gave up. I'd be interested and I think the Croatian public is interested in why you gave up? They were the pressures of some lobbies, whether they were the pressures of some teleoperators or some lawyers or some public notebooks or some law enforcement agencies, I don't know, but for some reason, you gave it up. Public notebooks themselves said during this moratorium, and I'll remind you once again we're like a green-left block representative club together with colleagues from the SDP asked to extend the moratorium until we get a new Executive Act. You had six months after you introduced a moratorium to the performance to make a new good, fair, efficient and let's say a cheaper system of execution, you didn't do it. Now I see, however, that something is burning your conscience or at least that the reactions in the public are bad, so there are situations that happen that the HDZ Club in the Assembly is going with amendments that aren't very irrelevant, so obviously you have some ex-post mind and you're going and you realize that you've made a mistake with these changes and that they don't go deep enough or far enough. What bothers me the most is I'm going to say later on in the final presentation are the demand collection agencies, what it sounds neutral, what it sounds like to the euphemism agency for the payment of claims, and actually the gulcos and debt seekers. They don't mean to break legs like those debt seekers in mob movies, but bohemian psychologically harass people, I can tell you from a lot of personal examples as well. They call people home in the morning, at night, on holidays, they call their neighbors, they call them relatives so they can't get in touch with them, and they tell them they're in charge so that everyone knows they're in debt. Let me remind you, the public notebook itself has been told since the beginning of this moratorium that most of the proposals are for the purpose of non-payment of municipal directors. Who doesn't pay the utility? Well, only those who can't afford it. So having unregulated agencies during this biggest social crisis that they can do literally whatever they want and still give them a million kunas of help in the covid crisis, and having more millions of profits is deeply immoral.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17253	Thank you, Mr. Tomasevic. You don't have a replica. It's Mrs. Maria Jelkovac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17254	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with the secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the whole afternoon we've been discussing the amendment and supplementation of the executive law. The executive law is indeed a complex law, first of all because sometimes it's a different light if you look at it from the point of view, sometimes different if you look at it from the point of view. I would like to stress that here all afternoon we have heard first of all about how these amendments and additions are not good, how we should go to a new whole law, so no one says that, and the minister himself has said that it is not in the plan for the adoption of a new Executive Act because it is certain that we need it after so many amendments to the rules. However, there are reasons why at this point it is justified to go exactly to amendments and amendments to the law as proposed here. Namely, I had a question a few days ago from one of our fellow citizens asking if we would get a Christmas card this year. I said I hope so, and I believe you will, I believe that the amendments and additions of the law will come into force by then and you will be able to get them. For this very reason, because every kuna I can get is important to our executed, and these amendments and additions to the laws provide, among other exceptions, for the purpose of other fees and receipts and Christmases, it is precisely why we are going in this urgent procedure at the moment to adopt these amendments and supplementation of the Implementing Law. I would like to point out that all those activities that were undertaken in the past term of government, and that was above all an amendment to the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumers Act, was the goal of just solving the problem of completed and blocked. This draft law is currently going towards creating a better position for the perpetrators, as well as creating a more efficient framework for the process and simplifying the process. What is very important, there is no need to always strive for copying. There is a lot of sound here and often hears why we do not go to the Slovenian model. Each country is specific to itself and all circumstances need to be considered and it is not always good to think that something else is effective with us. So, what the minister also pointed out in the Slovenian model has good things, above all it is an electronic i.e. The model that makes this system run fast because of this electronic system that we are proposing now, but it's not cheaper than what we're proposing right now. What is also important is that what has been an objection so far and that I agree that it has been bad that many times when citizens push a card into an ATM they realize that they cannot raise money because they have been completed, that in the future it will not be possible for the reason that the process of prior notification of each contractor or debtor allows him to agree with the believer within 15 days on that debt, and only if this does not follow the adoption of a solution. So this prior notification of the debtor is a significant step in what is also very important, to increase the limit from 20 to 40,000 kn where the power of the real estate execution will not be triggered if the debt is below that amount. So other than Christmas, there are other benefits, which are the resurrection, the regress, the fees for the diet of workers, the wages of workers, the fees for victims of criminal acts, the funds for the implementation of projects financed from the national budget or from the EU funds. This proposal also improves delivery provisions in such a way that, after two unsuccessful deliveries, delivery is made via an ad board but, with the obligation to send, inform the perpetrator into its mailbox or to E-Citizens. What I'm trying to say is that it's also important, that the mission will be suspended by official duty if the executive has not taken any action within one year. This encourages efficiency of the process and also encourages efficiency of the process. will decrease debt because interest will not flow further. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17255	Thank you. Stay, stay, stay. - Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17256	Well, thank you, ma'am. The Christmas tree you finally said was the real point of these changes and additions. In Christmas Day, in the fact that you will later advertise how you have done a great thing for our performers by filling around Christmas with those plastic bags in the local grocery store. Well, that's not what saved their lives, and you don't even know what you're doing with this law. This E-Option system and the circular cycle of the circulation of the award of objects between different public records offices. Do you have any idea how this will be implemented in implementing regulations? You don't. In practice, it will come to the conclusion of an executive course in Zagreb, somewhere in Dubrovnik. How will this contribute to the efficiency, efficiency, simplicity of the Croatian judiciary? You do what you do with every law, you don't know what to put in it, and you say we'll sort it out later on with the rules. So much for transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17257	Thank you. Here you go, ma'am. Jelkovac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17258	My colleagues or you haven't seen the whole proposal enough, I don't know from where this claim is made on each subject of the case, it's going to be assigned alphabetically, according to the court's seat, just as it is with the leftovers. So it's not going to go this way like you just said. And as for the fact that the goal is just to bribe the citizens with Christmas cards, it's not really justified of you to say so, you who are here all afternoon on the proposal of this law for the reason we look at the whole problem, and indeed, if you were in a position to make decisions responsibly, you would certainly not speak this way because in this whole process you must protect both the religious position and the position of the debtors, you as a lawyer know very well. It's easy while you're in opposition to speak populist but you need to be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17259	Thank you. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17260	Injury of Rules of Procedure, 238, your exposure is in some way an insult on a personal level but not only to me but also to complete opposition. So it's really not clear to me how you don't hear that the complete opposition throughout the day pointed to the fact that the proposed changes and additions don't solve anything, we've been looking for a complete solution, we've been looking for a change in the system of performance, not one of our remarks from either of my clubs or any other, you haven't had a single answer and no argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17261	You know I have to give you a warning, right? It was a replica. You know that yourself. Now it's Mr. Bacic's replica. Mr. Boric, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17262	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Jelkovac, we have heard those who know everything, colleague Oreshkovic, Mira Bulja, etc., Grmoje, people who have never made any major decisions concerning more than one person so we know what we're talking about, when we came to power in 2016 we inherited over 300,000 blocked citizens and in two terms we try to help these people again... What you're talking about, and the position of creditors and the position of debtors, to make it easier and that these people can function normally and what we offer today or solve this law, is not for underestimation and it's not for this kind of debate that we listen to on the other hand that nothing is ever right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think this helps and that people will be able to sort out some of the problems they've had so far. Anyone who's in a position to do the performance, including us who are local leaders, etc., surely it's neither nice nor nice work, but the simple position of the job makes us think that sometimes things have to be done and we just have to do that to help the citizens, and These are the proposals of the law, and let those who know everything know know. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Boric, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17263	- Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17264	Thank you. My dear colleague, it is true what you said, so today we have 100,000 less blocked than in 2019, I think the figures speak very clearly about trends. If we're looking at condition 31. 10th, the number of blocked was 247,000 and 17. 11. 233,000. So we see the trend of the fall blocked, and I think it's very clear that it has the effect of everything that we've done so far for that group of people. So what I'm saying is, if we're discussing this proposal today, then we have to point out what's good, what they see is blocked and executed themselves, and that's reducing the costs of the process, the exemption from the benefits that have been made so far. From the Christmases, the regression to the food compensation and any other fees that will now be exempt from what is very important to them, so that we do not talk about other benefits that will bring about these amendments to the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17265	Thank you. Mr. Baitchitch now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelkovac, you are absolutely right when you say that it is necessary to take care of the balance between the rights of the believer and the rights of the debtor. On the one hand, the security of the creditors will collect their claims and on the other hand take care of the social situation and the situation of each individual debtor. In that sense, we have shown in these amendments to the law that we are taking care of it, but as you said earlier in the year, in the year, by 120,000 the number of debtors and our fellow citizens and the team has been reduced, and this goes on the way. And what I would add is that in this law is what FINA is now implementing, that is the fact that if it is paid within 15 days of prior notification then there is no cost of the executive procedure. So, I think this is where the rights of debtors were taken care of when it comes to their social situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17267	Ma'am. Jelkovac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17268	Thank you. Well, it is certain that these changes and additions improve the position of the perpetrators, and it is not true when it is claimed that of the most blocked and the most debt-bound debt-related to the communal fees or energy. So when you see the data in total then it doesn't seem like it. Uh, I'd just say that out of the total debt one big one also shares the share where citizens are each other's believers in relation to creditors and perpetrators, which also says that it's not just about municipal directors. What is significant is that all these actions will really improve the position of the performers and also the debtors, but we must also bear in mind that there are, for example, single mothers among the believers who must collect alimony through the procedure. That's just one example. who says we must protect the position of the believers. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a replica tank.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17270	Here I will first agree in one part with you, which is that the law must be such as to protect the position of debtors, especially those debtors who are unable to pay the debt because of the economic and social situation, but on the other hand be effective in order to be able to collect debts, especially for those who are actually weaker in this process because very often the believer can be actually an economically weaker party and I agree there. But when you talk about the integrity of this law and now you've praised it. I am interested in this particular way, will this law and what provisions prevent you from carrying out an apartment, for example, on the basis of contracts containing unfair practices and unfair provisions? Imagine a Swiss franc loan contract, how will you prevent the real estate execution from being carried out, did you foresee it on the basis of such contracts?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17271	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17272	So the Executive Law does not solve that question, colleague. So, uh... No, no, so here we are talking about carrying out an enforcement on the basis of a credible I.D., in most cases everything here that has been proposed by these amendments and additions. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And I'm sorry that today we're not focusing exactly on what these amendments and additions are proposed. And I haven't heard from either of you specifically what's wrong and worse for the position of the performers or by chance a believer is proposed by these amendments and additions? So, you all agree that these amendments and additions provide for a better position for the perpetrators and for the reduction of the costs of the procedure and for the exemption of certain receipts, but you believe that the greatest sin is not the adoption of a new Executive Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17273	Okay. ... And time goes by. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17274	The minister himself said that the new executive law that needs to be systematic and that requires longer procedure to be adopted. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17275	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Habian, To whom? [[Employment: Injury of Rules of Procedure]] Mrs. Bencic, do you have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Bencic? Mrs. Devereaux. [[Intruder: Bencic]] A little ben?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17276	Here, I'm risking a warning, of course, and I know I'm going to get it, but I have to answer it because if you really did during this whole debate where we were really making concrete proposals to improve these provisions and in general what should be included in the law... novels, nothing you heard exactly what was wrong and what were the shortcomings then I have to conclude that then you wouldn't listen to us from the opposition or you didn't want to hear us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd do it again and I'd appeal, it's not enough to mask that something happened because that's what we're actually going to do. loss of efficiency [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And we won't get to protect the debtor. [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's what we're gonna get.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17277	Thanks, you didn't, you didn't, you didn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17278	The basic observation is not to pass a whole law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17279	...please don't answer, it wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17280	I'm sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17281	No, you didn't risk the warning, you knew you'd get it, that's, you absolutely knew that, right? Please beautiful, it was a replica. Let's move on. Someone, I'm sorry, I'm not, well, thank you. [[I'm gonna hit the bench. Let's go.]] Now it's Mr. Habian's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17282	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I would agree with this part of where you mentioned it, and where the actual opposition points out in some way that this government is not sensitive to our citizens, and forgets, for example, that in the previous one, it has already passed a set of legal proposals, which is, in fact, the total debt of citizens from 44 billion kuna to 17 billion, from 32,000 blocked to, now we hear, 233,000 blocked. I'm going to take this opportunity to keep mentioning some proposals, so constructive proposals. What's been said here by Mrs. Devereaux. For example, Bencic, these institutes that he proposes already exist, for example in the CAP, so there is an interruption of the procedure where we can use it in case you mention these... and consumer loans, so some instruments have already been implemented in Croatian legislation only need to be used and used. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17283	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17284	Thank you, dear colleague. Yes, it is true, therefore, that everything, I have also mentioned in the debate, all that has been done so far, and in the previous term, has sought and aimed at improving the legal position of the perpetrators and their position throughout the situation. So we know that in the term of the past government also one large part of the debt is forgiven to the debtors, also not only by state-owned companies and states but also by the JLS. So it also made it impossible for natural persons to become disillusioned during the winter months, and now we see that it still seems to be. What is equally important is the increase in the amount below which it is not possible to conduct an executive procedure on real estate. So, what I want to say in each of the measures taken so far has always been trying to find a balance between what can be done to improve the position of the perpetrators, and they are seriously interested in all of this now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17285	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17286	Dear colleagues. So the whole day of recovery says it's not good changes and additions to the executive law, but it's supposed to go to new ones. And would a new law of law apply that would solve the problems of these old ones? No, you wouldn't. So this is repairing the state that is and trying to do everything that has the disadvantages that have been detected so far. Therefore, one of the greater reliefs in one way is that within 15 days one can negotiate and the party can solve the problem in such a way as not to go straight into action, and it is also very important that these rewards and fees and everything else improve the lives of our inhabitants, as well as those who seek this way to get out of such situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17287	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17288	Thank you. It is certain that our perpetrators often seem to be in an unembarkable situation and it is certain that any improvement introduced through the law to facilitate the whole process and to reduce the costs of the process, and also to speed up the process, to improve their position in this regard in order to be previously informed of the contributions to make them feel safer, to feel more legally protected. It is certainly impossible to pass an executive law that would settle matters in a way that debts do not have to be forced to charge at all because the purpose of this law itself is to force the payment of demand. So it's impossible to make the law the way there are debts, they'll be forgiven. So we created conditions to forgive debts where it is necessary and through the Law on personal bankruptcy, but there must be a certain procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17289	Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17290	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Here's one very serious law, and it's certain that every change of law that helps is important. Today, though, we could hear much of the opposition from bringing good to this law and about what you said about reducing the costs of the execution and the reduction of the deadlines and all the good as well as this 12,000 perpetrators less. And I just wanted to point out here that you're aware of the fact that the units of local self-government have reduced their performances, how much that moratorium has been turned and forgiven and that it also needs to be heard here by the public and everyone. and no one is normal who does not want to help those who are in need, only the same should be considered for those with whom the funds have been taken, so that we should have understanding. And the populist here says that everyone will work, that everyone will have as much pay as they want, it's an experiment that we've had 100 years practically the last where this communism and socialism proved to be a utopia. So we need to be realistic about this, but emphasize those who helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17291	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17292	Thank you. That a respected colleague, as I have already mentioned, and I know that my unit of local self-government has been going towards that pattern and the debt was forgiven by both the municipal company and many citizens have really helped. However, what we all need to be aware of, as well as the executioners themselves, when I spoke to them at one time, they used to say some of them, I brought myself into this situation needlessly. So there's no universal case. Some have come into this situation, perhaps because some things have not been well evaluated at a certain point, some because of certain life circumstances that they could not influence. So we all have hearing about it together and the difficulty they're in, but that's why we have to look rationally for how to help them, not saying that everything can be solved overnight, is either by forgiveness of debt or by no means knowing how. Not even a new executive law when it's not going to solve everything perfectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17293	Thank you. The last replica of Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17294	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, you spoke of which all receipts will be excluded from the occasion. It should be remembered that until July, August 2018, when more than 6,000 of our fellow citizens had a debt of less than 10,000 kuna, when a number of accounts in which three and more years there had been no changes with the change of laws stopped being blocked and thus we reduced the number of blocked by 90,000. The amount of blocked funds from 43 billion to 16 billion kuna, which means that since 2017 the number has been blocked by 340,000 decreases here we have now seen at 247.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17295	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17296	Yes, it is certain that, as we have so far claimed, all these actions that we have done so far have been effective. Of course we haven't solved the problem, that we've brought it down to zero, and that's never going to be a situation. Thus, there will always be both the performers and the believers in society. But what is important is to create conditions for this process to be swift, efficient and just to the extent possible. So when we create a legal framework here, first of all, we have to make sure that this procedure is for the benefit of the believer, but also for the benefit of the perpetrators that they do not feel that they are in an unjust position. What I must say and now we have prescribed these amendments that if within a year no legal action is taken by the executives also comes to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17297	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Krunoslav Katicic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17298	Here's the Honorable Vice President and Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's how we're gonna start, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State. So here, looking at and listening to this whole debate that we've had all afternoon, they've been going towards pointing out that it's some kind of cosmetic change so I'm going to give full support to my colleague Jelkovac who's now listed the good side of this bill and I think I'm also taking the right to be a part of a single procedure after a 20-year career in almost daily life, saying that these changes that are now going to be one of those changes that are going to make let's say, let's say, I dare say, I dare say, tectonic disorders in the implementation and way of carrying out the executive actions and executions that are happening in these proceedings. Namely, I've been a participant since those first beginnings of '96, when the executive law was actually started, so I'll just tell you briefly again that the public and we all realize that it's a very important executive law and amendments that are really going to make a lot of big changes. So far, there's always been a problem that people and our citizens have had a problem with coming to the ATM, and then they see that they're gone, that their account is blocked without them knowing about it. This is one change that would go in one let's say the period that happened, which is behind us, now it's really happening again that you have the notice of the previous one that's very good, as one institute, after which the public notary calls, gives again the opportunity to somehow reach the debt and only after that is the solution of the task to which a regular legal remedy can be invested in the view of it. Then this part, which increases the ban on executive actions to an amount of 40 000 kn, guarantees that the transparency of the public, that most of the problems we have can be solved, and thus it is an effective process that will bring about the well-being of both the creditors and the debtors. Of course, there is a considerable number of exceptions to the performance, not just from the Christmas card, there are many things and there is much more to determine what it is, each well-intentioned will commend it and support such a proposal. Also, the ban on enforcement in this period of time is of crucial importance, so from 1 November to 1 April it clearly shows that it is transparency and care for the citizens and the inviolability of the home we have. Yeah... We have, we introduce a rule of initiation, of the exercise we have in this work, of introducing an improved electronic communication that was missing in this work that we have so far introduced additional conditions into the court and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To conclude, I believe that the intention of this solution is to balance the existing system of performance, that we will respect, all of these changes will really strengthen the legality of the state that we have and what I have heard here, really can only be confirmed that it is some kind of populist activism that gives some ideas without offering any solution and responsibility always stands on those who pass the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17299	Thank you too, stay here, you have one replica of Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17300	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Katičić, you clearly stated how many of these amendments and additions to the Executive Law are making changes in this part now, and of course we have listened all day to these on the other hand that it's no good, that it's all sucky for them because they have some complete solutions that no one has ever tried. One more time, we started with 300,000 blocked, today it's a lot less, we started with more than 40 billion kunas blocked, today it's on 24 and it's certain that this law that we all should support, if we really want to take care of these people that everyone here is talking about this way every day, it's those who can't, who are poor or who haven't managed or who can't find enough resources to function normally and then you have a reaction to the vote, they're all against these things that help us, that's what's bothering us here, but also the responsibility of what you said, it's all up to us to solve it ourselves and we're going to solve it without them and they're going to tell who they're telling their stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17301	Thank you, fellow Boric. Quite well, however, here, these real solutions and the principles on which we have to respect this to solve the inherited situation, there are a lot of problems in this, but we have to bear in mind that we are going to reduce this gradually to a number of blocked ones, to a reasonable measure and bring it down to as few as possible. These solutions must also be adopted and the payment of subordinated debts within a reasonable period of time and the price of that procedure must be as minimum and acceptable to a simple citizen when he has a simple debt. This will make these existing solutions happen and possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17302	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Branka Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17303	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this proposal to amend and supplement the Executive Act, as we have already heard, prescribes a reduction in the cost of the procedure, also increases the amount of the principal for which the real estate can't run from 20,000 to 40, the law also increases the number of receipts that are excluded from the performance, as we've already heard, the appropriate Christmases, awards, resurrections, regressions, etc. etc., and I really think this law should be supported. At the same time, it should be said that we are surely saddened by the fact that more than 247,000 of our fellow citizens have not been able to settle even the pay grounds executed and that all of us have been tasked with helping especially those who have worked and worked properly, but for any subjective and perhaps objective reasons they have not been able to meet all their obligations at some point. The government as we have heard the spell already in 2018 and every change of law comes to an end as much as anyone considers it a small step, but it is certain that each time a new group of our citizens is in a more favourable position. The time we live in is really affected by both the health and economic crisis, and we don't know what awaits us all in the coming period, so we need to think further about how to meet these citizens too. There are entrepreneurs who started to carry out their own activities, so for various reasons as I said they came into trouble and created debts, and then they became this blocked, and then they opened a new twist on one of the spouses, so when they created large debts, they then opened up to one of the children and so on. However, there are also our entrepreneurs who have settled their obligations neatly for 20 and more years, and yet at a certain point they have come into trouble, created a debt that was very quickly the size of more than tens and hundreds of thousands of kunas. We know that for years that interest has been extremely high, so that number has become, that amount has been multiplely higher than the principal itself, and when people were able to come and settle these obligations, it was not only possible to settle the principal but it was, at the same time, to settle the interest. Now, fortunately, this year, all these interest payments were written off by the Tax Administration, but contracts were offered to settle all the principal within 24 months, and of course, if the person in the meantime gave up his self-employed activity, got a job, had an average salary of one of the spouses or even two with smaller incomes or one had incomes, the other had pensions and so on. and their receipts do not exceed 7,8 thousand kuna per month, for example. principal and debt to the IRS, e.g. 300,000 kuna is 12,000 kuna per month which is not acceptable for them and brings them back to new problems and can again not sign one such contract, regardless of what the law has also allowed the Tax Administration and that their interest is written off and that they are kind of met. I think everyone has a second chance, and here I am also appealing to the minister, the ministry and the government to find ways to offer them such cases new real-estate contracts that could normally be paid off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17304	Thank you very much, stay here because you have several replicas, the first replica was requested by Mr. Vice President Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17305	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke nicely of.../incomprehensible/... doing everything in our power and through the legislation to help those in need. You have cited a series of examples here from the reality of life. This morning I heard a story about a single mother losing her job, couldn't pay for a loan, clearly and came in a position to do it, and she's in big trouble. We have also heard through the law here from speakers, ministers and some speakers who are all the advantages of this law, but it is very interesting if we listen, listening to our colleagues from the opposition, not a single positiveity of this law I have not heard that they have said that this reduction is positive either, nor the reduction of giving, anything positive has been heard about what is in this amendment and supplemental proposal. How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17306	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17307	Well, the opposition is there to challenge, I think it would be much better to make constructive suggestions, it was impossible to say that we have not heard any suggestions for this speaker, but as counterpart Jelkovac said, the question is if we were in our position to see the situation completely and to know both the views and the creditors and the debtors and their condition, because it is possible that the believer, too, is that the debtor did not fulfil all obligations to someone else and so we are in a vicious circle from which it is very difficult to get out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17308	Just a minute. Thank you very much, Mrs. Grozdana Peric has a replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17309	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you were talking about how the municipal companies of HEP, local self-government units were also doing descriptions and someone in the opposition was saying that the state needed it. The State did so for the part that was in charge of the Tax Administration, and the interest was written off by the basis of that law again and that unit and thus made it easier to pay off the debts. It is very important to mention in that previous period this very formation of administrative contracts that have allowed the debt to be paid on a cost-effective basis, and that is, this is just a continuation of everything that has been done in the previous period. Surely there are many more who have great obligations during that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17310	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17311	Thank you very much, so fellow Peric you're right, the IRS, as I said from this case, has written off the entire interest and offered a contract that would go on a rite payment. However, what HEP will do, what Telecom will do, which will make a certain city or municipality, is not everything in the legislation, nor can this be managed from this pay phone remain some segments that can only be made by those who are essentially the owners of that company, company or unit of local or regional administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17312	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17313	Thank you very much, colleague Yurichev. I support you for everything you've said. We repeat again, so this law offers improvements precisely to blocked and executed ones. And what we heard today is that the opposition is against helping these people further because that is not enough to help them, to further digitize them, to further raise the censorship, to further procedures in which the excess of what may have been so far, etc., they say is wrong because 20 is not 100, why 30 is not 500, etc., is always looking for details why something is wrong. It is up to us to endure and bring this along with everything that awaits us in the future. And as for local self-government, we don't do these performances, or we don't take them as leaders because it's what we do, we're simply forced for other bodies of the state, let's say, the authorities who ask us why you do something and don't do it. And it's not just that easy to write off some debts regardless of the good will to do it. You need to go through a certain procedure again and find that something is on the side written off, whether or not it is not possible to charge [[Intruder: Thank you]] So the simplicity that we're hearing about today and all these days simply doesn't exist except for the individuals of politicians. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17314	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17315	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, I just said in my presentation and all of us on this side of the pay phone, on this side of the assembly, were talking about this being a law that should be supported. Whether there is room for an even better and better-quality solution and thinking certainly yes, and the minister himself said in his opening statement that in the preparation of the law, the executive law that will take a comprehensive view of all other segments of that law that are not now covered by these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17316	And finally, Mr. Bacic's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, you initially listed all the good parts of this law. What I agree with you, in which I agree with you, is that there is no executive law that can settle debt instead of debtors. So whatever we do owes me stays. What is the obligation of the legislator, which is that this debt should not be burdened with fees that would represent an excessive burden on the debtor. If, however, the state decides that part of the debt is not to be paid, then it must provide a budget contradiction to satisfy its claim to the believer. Otherwise we get into a banana state situation. Therefore, that security must exist, but a state with such a law and one, the one announced by the minister in the spring, must do everything possible to make these fees as much as possible. Otherwise, the right to fight against, against, against, against these opportunities for people to be blocked is an increase in wages, pensions, minimum wages, employment, etc., it is a real fight against, against this situation that is happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17318	Thank you very much. So, colleague Bačić, just as these amendments and additions to the Implementing Law prescribes a reduction in costs, it is our job to make these fees as little as possible. Here, as we have mentioned earlier, interest has been completely written off, and the government of the Republic of Croatia is already doing a lot more and has done a lot more than two and three previous governments have done and on the issue of increasing the average pension, minimum pensions, minimum salaries, average salaries, etc. And I'm sure it will continue in this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17319	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And get ready for Mr Marin Miletic who will be the first to speak finally on behalf of the club of representatives in this case of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17320	Thank you, Mr. Furio Radin, Vice President HS, Mr. Bukarica, Mr. Minister Malenica. We've had the state for 30 years, and this is the 27th Amendment to the Executive Act. The people’s proverb would say, “even a dead end of a chicken stabs something. ” Now I hear this regime has been announced, and it is said that this new law will slowly be changed, and until then, unfortunately, many people will fail. The situation is very difficult and how things stand will be demanding to live for the next months and months in our Croatia. I can't agree with the data and the finding that we only have 250,000 blocked. They are, in fact the number is much larger. Why? Because this is FINA statistics, it's money and not all the work done just through FINA, we know it well and let the Croatian public know it. We're not saying today whether we should pay debts or not, it's clear that we have to pay back the debt, but if I'm not mistaken, he was talking here in this honorary home about how we have more than 10% of the population blocked. They're in big trouble. It's a social problem dear representatives, these people can't get a job anywhere, 10% of the population, it's a terrible and big problem. It's clear to us that the Executive Law can't solve everything, and so I hold that we all, each of us, have to work a lot harder to live on our own knowledge, that I can live on my work, that I could almost say, so it's the best recipe, that you let people live on their work, that they live on their own knowledge, that they have good wages, and that you solve the problem of some possible tasks, but still this law has to be fair, and I would allow myself to say that it doesn't seem fair and that it can be much, much better ministers. Listening here, for example. Here I am in the assembly, and here I am from 8:30 a.m., the debate began later, I think at 14:30 p.m. when all my colleagues came here. I received information from the unions who asked me to respond, the union queen sent all the clubs to the assembly on the need and importance of exempting union social aid from the exercise and I asked for the amendment to be adopted. In fact, although trade union social assistance is a kind of social support, the executive law does not explicitly recognise it as receiving it except for the purpose. In view of the purpose of union social assistance, I believe that this type of income should also be allowed to be paid to a protected account. Thank you. I will repeat again, our Croatia, our beautiful Croatia we have 30 years, in these 30 years 27 times the executive law has been amended, God dear, to make the next one last and to be good enough to really be the last. It will be difficult but I believe in the Croatian people, there are a few defenders here now, we are a hard-hit people, when Marko Babic in the old ladies and jeans stood on the Trpinjska road in front of 40 tons of uglyness, he was not afraid of anyone, and all of you heroes, no matter what political option they belonged to. And I trust deeply, I believe this pandemic will pass, and we will again stand on our feet, and we will eventually come out as winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17321	Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17322	Are you going to pick up your Rules of Procedure immediately, or are you going to wait for me to say something? I don't know how it's not all too expensive to call the opposition to populism, you've been in power since 2015, you've done absolutely nothing for the citizens or for the system as a whole. In every normal democratic legal order, the executive law is one of the most important laws, not only because it regulates the procedure for forced collection of claims, as you incorrectly point out every time in your public speeches, and nothing better than the Secretary of State, Mr. Salapic. Therefore, the Implementing Law guarantees and allows for judicial decisions, justice must be enforceable in order to be of value, that is the right essence and the right to the core of the Implementing Law. We often forget this, and we forget because for our specific Croatian opportunities this law is particularly sensitive because of the frightening number of our fellow citizens in social, economic and social exclusion situations. Therefore, it really irritates this indifference with which you have approached the preparation of amendments and additions to this law. This is not only a bad law, this is a bad proposal but it is also a visual example of how it arises and where all problems arise in the Croatian judiciary. In amendments to the laws adopted as on tape, which is voted by the parliamentary majority as if it were an autopilot, who absolutely hears nothing about what the other side of the assembly has to say, but also not the profession, nor the other competent state institutions. What are these discussions for, if we really can't respect each other and look for the best solutions for our citizens? And the fact that you're not listening to anything has shown not only today's debate but also yesterday's budget amendment, as well as the whole series of laws we've been discussing since the start of the mandate. If you had listened to anything, if you had any good intentions, you might at least consider what the Croatian Bar of Law pointed to in 2018 to your predecessor, Mr Bošnjaković. More importantly, it would help our perpetrators if we changed the order of payment of the claim. It may not be the best solution, but it is certainly one of the proposals that this Croatian Parliament should finally begin to discuss. You didn't show that you're even interested in considering it today, let alone adopting it. Furthermore, it's high time to think about how we're going to get rid of unnecessary intermediaries, whether it's as we think it is, or maybe it's public notebooks, I don't know or not, and if I knew I wouldn't be discussing it right now because it's not the subject of this law, and in the end, I'd like to discuss it the moment when we're going to have concrete expert analyses, concrete numbers, so the laws should be passed, and not this kind of promotion, populist. It's you who are the populists, because of the Santa Claus, because of the 2.3 bags that will be filled in some kind of store in the neighborhood, that doesn't change the position of the performers much more. But we are far from some systematic thinking, analysis and adoption of the right laws based on concrete ideas on how to change this Croatia for the better, we are stuck on digitising what this concept even means. And we're introducing one bad practice, which is that all we don't know is that we're saying that later to be defined in a rule, so the things that should be defined in the law are defined somewhere in the courtrooms who know how, who knows in whose interest. That's what's wrong, that's where the rule of law falls, and here's the particular thing about these changes and the additions that you've now proposed. And just to look back on something that my colleague Jelovac said. Here's how I read the provision of future Article 39. Paragraph 4 of the proposal for enforcement on the basis of credible documents are automatically entrusted to the work of public notaries as court commissioners in an equally alphabetical order of their last names, I do not see where it says it will be defined by some territorial jurisdiction, but it is now, perverse. The bigger problem is that we don't know what will be in that electronic form, how the rotation of the automatic allocation system will be controlled and whether it will really speed up and facilitate the executive procedure, and I say it won't. Not only will they not but we do not know when such a system will be launched because, as we can see, even though the announcements of this digitalisation were released into public story a few years ago about implementation, about realization, about preparation of no sign of voice. And I also want to say that the minister shouldn't prescribe the price or public service, or the legal services, that's something that defines chambers and whether or not they need chambers. It's just a subject for some future debate. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I hope that's what it's going to be for. One day it's a turn. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17323	Thank you very much. Mr Tomislav Tomašević... Just wait, yeah, just a moment because it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17324	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected colleague has been injured by an officer. 238. Dear colleagues, the rotation of the award of the subject according to this law as envisaged will certainly be more effective and better than was the form of GDPR for Janaf you worked on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17325	The lady received a warning, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17326	That's right, 238, I have the right to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17327	No, you have no right to explain, you have the right to say that there was some violation of the Rules of Procedure, mine in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17328	I'll tell her for coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17329	Okay, I'll take it. Uh, coffee with the lady?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17330	I mean, can I have coffee with you if you're in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17331	I'll take it for sure. Let's move on seriously now, please. Mr Tomislav Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17332	Here, I'm glad my colleague Bacic is finally going to iron all this behind us. But well, so in front of us as I already said it wasn't the executive law but the superficial law for which, so these changes are insufficient, cosmetic, there was time to make a new law, 6 months went by moratorium, we put the conclusion six weeks ago here to extend the moratorium until the new executive law came along, you didn't even put that proposal on the plenary debate, 6 weeks went by, 6 months you had to make a new executive law. You made it in 2019, you forgot about it, and you put it in a drawer because it obviously didn't answer to someone. I believe you've been pressured, I believe they have, and apparently you've given in to these pressures, and now you're re-announced the new Executive Act to justify these cosmetic changes. So, you had a more socially sensitive, hard, socially sensitive law in 2019. than this year when the social crisis is the biggest in this decade, which is absurd. However, we are constructive, we have given you 9 amendments in the scope of these minimum amendments to the executive law that you are doing, because you are doing a new executive law, then we could also give amendments to the entire system of implementation so that it could work better, so don't say we didn't propose anything. And as part of these minimal changes, we've put nine amendments on you, so please study them. And I also see that the HDZ Club has been quite broad-handed, which is quite unusual that so many amendments come from the HDZ Club on a government proposal, so obviously you're not happy with this bill of amendments either. I'm going to mention another absurd, four green companies of the Agency for, for, the collection of claims so-called, a million kuna times in the coronary crisis as a help to preserve jobs in those agencies. What they couldn't call from home, work from home and phone to harass citizens, and since their work wasn't regulated by this executive law. So they got a million kunas from the state to harass citizens, and they have millions, some hundreds of millions of kunas, their return is about 25%, 25%, they're green interest. It's completely unregulated, not only in Croatia, but some countries have solved it. Unfortunately, at EU level, it is not regulated. Some countries have settled it, Croatia has not yet. So the last minute is to do it. You have the aim of the law of a measure of enhanced protection of the dignity of the debtors. If you really want to protect the dignitaries' dignity, you can regulate the Agency's work to collect claims because this is unsustainable. People call me every day and tell me what stories go by with them. This situation is impossible. You've increased the amount of capital that can't be done on the property, you've put it on during the winter. That's kind of cynical of me. ... So it's not winter? [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] Okay, so that's because it's the first six months, because it's... Because he's a covid, right? ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then you'll explain to each other on another occasion. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] However, I repeat, it should be relatively long and the purpose of real estate and this should be legally imposed. So it's not absolute enough to just increase to 40,000 kunas because what it's worth if you can do someone for a debt, it means a property worth 20 times more than a debt, and a man lives in that property because in certain circumstances it doesn't cover it that it can't be done in the real estate he lives in if he puts it as a colleter when he goes into the business he's done himself, in art. 75th if I'm not mistaken. So, you should, you should agree and be careful about the position of the credentials, especially if he's weaker than the debtors and I also agree. However, we need a new law. We have been waiting 6 months for you to make it, so we will no longer wait, we will propose a new law that will regulate the issue of blocking accounts, time limits them, which will restore the execution to courts, to special departments of courts related to the launch of the executive procedure, judicial control of the executive procedure, which will extend the benefits that are excluded from the execution, and introduce a censorship that depends on the official border of poverty for the inexplicable part of the income, which will allow individual access to restructuring and debt, which will limit the practice of selling debt and the work of the Agency for the collection of claims and settle the issues of property restrictions because what you have done is not good enough. The executive law is not, I agree, a mechanism to reduce poverty and social threats, but it cannot even be a mechanism to increase poverty and this spiral of debt slavery, and unfortunately it is not, was 26 attempts to change it, failed attempts to change it, so it is necessary and 27 is the best proof of it. We can have a fairer, more efficient and cheaper system of performance. He's not in this law, and that's why we're going to propose him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17333	Time fellow Tomasevic. Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Bacic also finished on behalf of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. Introductoryly, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, our position on this law was discussed, said MP Bosnjakovic, and I believe that this defines the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club. And we are in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely at the stand and we are already talking and we expect the government to come to the Parliament in the spring session with the new Executive Law, the more we were very, very close to passing the Executive Law in the last term. We had, we had two readings and I think it was a very good law. That in the second reading, given the number of amendments, given the further new remarks that would have been made to improve this text, the law was addressed to the third reading, and in the meantime it was clear that we were going to the election campaign, and this law was not passed because I am very sorry that we did not pass this law, because I think it is an excellent basis to define, answer these questions that came from the debate itself today. But until then, we hear with the right of all stakeholders in Croatian society how it is necessary to react in view of the fact that economic downturns, the decline in income of Croatian entrepreneurs, the decline in income of Croatian citizens, given the consequences of this pandemic, then it is good for me and for us at the club that the government reacted intervening with this law, these amendments to the laws, and that's good. And that's not what we at the club say. We don't claim that this closes the story of the executive law. No, we've intervened this. We're cutting the cost of an executive procedure. We're simplifying him. We're increasing an amount that can't be done on real estate. And what is important is that we still exclude certain incomes from Croatian citizens that cannot be completed. Now that it's Christmas, if it were maybe sooner, it'd be Easter. If it had been during another period, it would have been another holiday. It would be the body's. I don't know what I should do then, if certain laws should be passed in order for the opposition to be satisfied because then you wouldn't be able to say it's a populist approach. Because this law will pass after Christmas, but there will be other receipts. There will be other receipts that will not be completed because we will pass this law on Friday. Therefore, we are very concerned about the rights of our citizens. We also care about the location of the blocked and the perpetrators. And with a series of activities of this government, we're working on it. I agree with you Implementing law... the mechanism for reducing poverty, but there are a number of other measures that we have implemented and based on what we have shown over the past 4 and a half years how we know how to manage the state to reduce the number of poor, to increase the standard of our citizens, to increase the incomes and in the system of employees in the state and public sector, but also in the public sector and that social sensitivity, you do not need to tell us. We are the Government, the ruling majority, so if you want HDZ, in whose name I am now speaking at the moment that we estimated that the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus could drastically compromise the position of Croatian employers, businessmen, and then clearly their employees would intervene with 8 billion kunas to save both entrepreneurs and jobs and preserve their liquidity and business activities. Therefore, it is not the executive law, and the Implementing Law is only one part of the Mosaic law that is being implemented, so if you want social policy, and economic policy, and we are clear that we are aware that we are going to help this law in an intervening way, but that it will be in the function of what would follow. And you, Mrs. Oreshkovic, will never be able to raise any boards with a breach of the Rules of Procedure when you are in principle talking about the work or unhappiness of the Government. When you're the minister on this public stage at the pay phone, you can say not only that he's unprofessional, but that there's no honor sitting here for this, then you deserve the answer you'll get forever when you act like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17335	Thank you. And now, in the end, Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17336	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I can say that after the entire afternoon that part of the debate has passed in a constructive tone. I am saddened by a part of the opposition MPs who did not actually recognise these provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Executive Law, and he recognized them, recognized them by the Association of Blocked. In fact, this morning Mr. Sarajko Baksa supported the Croatian Radio show, commended these amendments to the Executive Law. Unfortunately, here you are not on that trail. I guess then you don't think like the one who represents the citizens who are in a troubled situation. I would point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the past term but in this too, therefore, in this now continues to take care of the completed citizens, continuing to care for the blocked citizens. So in the last term, we showed this when we met with a large number of completed and blocked citizens, so in 2016 there were 370,000, 43 billion kuna in debt with the change of three laws, so that debt fell to 17 million, 17 billion kuna, and the number of blocked citizens fell to today to 230,000 of them. I would also point out that in the past 6 and 7 months since the introduction of moratories, so the number of blocked citizens has decreased, so we had them in April, in early April 247,000, and today we have about 233,000, and I believe that through the adoption of these amendments and additions, that this number will be further reduced because when we look at that part of the debtor, one part of the debtors, one part of the citizens who receive the notice of debt will respond to that notice and pay that debt, then the executive procedure will not be initiated, and also will reduce the number of citizens completed and blocked and the number of executions will be reduced through this fact that all enforcement procedures will be suspended if within a year, the executive has not taken any action. So, this shows, therefore, these amendments and additions, but also those amendments from 2017 and what we are announcing, which is the adoption of the new Executive Law of a full executive law that we systematically take care of a particular category of our citizens who, by force of opportunity or for some other reason, have entered certain problems. So through these amendments and additions to the Executive Act, we achieve that the whole procedure will be cheaper, so I have shown on several occasions that through the rules we will also influence the amount that the public notary can charge to carry out the executive procedure, as well as through the cost of FINE itself. Those who disputed or compared the cost here this afternoon in some other countries I can only say here that I am not defending FINA, but the financial agency, so the cost of cash implementation in Slovenia is carried out by banks and it is much higher than the cost of FINE in Croatia. So I can't agree that it's about cosmetic changes. So the introduction of e-provision and electronic communication into the executive process is certainly not a cosmetic change regardless of what will take effect in 6 months because it cannot actually come into effect otherwise, we cannot call an application tender, work an application, and we do not have a legislative framework that will regulate this application that will be some legal basis for the application. So I said, in my opening statement, that is, to answer Mr. Grbin's exposure, that from 6 to 8 months is the deadline that we set ourselves to complete this application and actually make this process faster and more transparent, therefore, through this system of emails. There have also been some criticism that a few judges and a couple of officials do so in Slovenia, so in Slovenia 6 judges and 60 officials do so, so I believe that by the end of the year we will start working in the working group, that together, we will, primarily, be with representatives of the believers, but also representatives of the blocked citizens, that we will prepare a quality legal proposal. We do not want to protect anyone except the representatives, or other than the believers and debtors. So these are two categories or two of the participants in the executive procedure that we are taking care of. So, the believer that the faster he can charge, the cheaper the procedure, and also the faster the procedure will be for the debtor, because then there will be no interest and all that goes on, and also to provide him with, secure and efficient, effective judicial protection. Also, you'd agree with the finding here that you should, you should actually see what's causing the debt of a particular category of citizens, we need to deal with it systematically. The government of the Republic of Croatia, I think, has made an enormous effort to preserve jobs as seen in the number of unemployed citizens at this time compared to the situation before the Covida-19 epidemic occurred and the government will continue to work systematically to ensure that our citizens are able to receive decent jobs, because it is therefore the best way for all citizens who have certain, certain debts to be able to settle these debts. So here I believe that through these changes and additions that my colleague Bacic called intervention and speed up the process, we will solve certain problem points in the executive system, and that by the end of the year here we will promise to start working through the working group on a complete amendment of the executive law, where we will, in any case, take the most care of two categories, therefore of creditors and debtors. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17337	Thank you, too, stay because you have three replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I would agree with you if it weren't for this cosmetic change, this isn't a superficial law, when it's superficially done forgets a lot, you here haven't forgotten how to simplify the procedure, how to reduce the cost of this procedure, and on the other hand what's important to you as Minister of Justice, which is that we are still clearly standing in the positions of protection of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. And that must never come to the question because if we give in then practically all of this that is done later is practically leading to chaos. And in that sense, you've specifically accentuated it, and as a minister of justice, it seems to me that you have to go after this speaker every time. And the other thing that's important to mention, the fact is that in the crisis that we're going through is that we're going down, the number of blockeds has been reduced, that nothing else you're explaining through this Implementing Law today is saying that already through the procedure and the recommendation that I forgot to say when I spoke on behalf of the club, a recommendation to the public notaries that in a certain way the executions have been done in certain waves to reduce the number of perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17339	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Thank you very much. Mr. Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17340	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Well, some MPs predicted a catastrophic scenario on October 19th. So, then, in agreement with the public notebooks, we deployed the total number of executions to three waves. And I can tell you that this first wave that included 80, about 87,000 executive proposals, executive procedures, so we got the information from the Public Bookmark chamber that only 50 of them were launched, that 50,000 were launched. So I believe there was some agreement between the believer and the debtor during that period. So we're always trying to direct the debtor to the believer to agree with each other about the existence of a certain, certain claim, a certain collection of a particular claim. So here, these aren't cosmetic changes. So they will speed up the process, modernise the process, and also create a good basis for us for a complete solution to the executive process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17341	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomislav Tomašević replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17342	Thank you. While you're already quoting Mr. Bucks from the Association of Blocked maybe to say what he really said, he said, "We welcome the 27th Amendment to the Executive Act because it will bring a temporary improvement until the final solution is found." And what he also said in that same interview that you quoted: "So far, the Executive Law has proved useful only to those who are dealing with the collection of claims, and the law itself is full of flaws that go in favour of segments between creditors and debtors." That's what I'm talking about. My colleague Bačić himself said dead and cold that in 2019 they had made a good law and that you had not adopted it because the election campaign started. ... So he went to the third reading, and then the election came and you didn't make it. [[The intruder doesn't understand, the speaker speaks from the bench.]] And now you say the same thing, it takes another six months for the app. But this social crisis is not waiting for anyone. So, what we wanted from the beginning is to make a new law as soon as possible. These are intervention measures at Christmas level and at the level of this increase in the volume. But when I speak, your secretary of state says, "Now there will be a cost not 8 times as much as the principal debt, but 3 and a half times as much." And still three and a half times bigger. [[Mr. Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. Tomasevic. Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17343	Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17344	So we minimized the cost in the executive procedure. So, the cost of the public notebooks, so we dropped the predictable cost, the cost of confirming the enforcement of the power of attorney. So we have a minimum cost. What we will certainly do when making the new Executive Act will certainly be revised and the total number of participants in the executive procedure. Now I don't want to talk about whether they're going to be in this final process of a new executive procedure, so also the public notebooks, and lawyers and other participants that we have now. But the number of participants in the executive procedure will certainly be reduced, and the cost will be reduced accordingly. And to refer to law enforcement agencies as well. It's also something that needs to be arranged and I believe that together with the Ministry of Finance we will settle that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17345	The last replica, Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I am interested in whether these are fundamental amendments to the law, intervening or cosmetics, which your colleagues on the left say, and which I do not agree with. Is these measures helping or amending the laws, is the process speeding up, is the process modernised and has the government of Andrej Plenkovic done anything so far for the completed and blocked persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17347	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17348	Thank you very much. So it is about intervention changes that will significantly modernise and speed up the executive process. The government of Andrej Plenkovic is in the past term, but will continue to provide systematic care for the problems of the completed citizens through changes, and through these changes, and through the preparation for the adoption of the whole law. So here I believe that these provisions in the law will certainly facilitate the position of those who are or are obliged to do so. But also, through the new law, we're going to regulate the executive procedure even more systematically and in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-24-0.u17349	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. For today, your work in the Parliament is done. I also thank all those who participated in the debate. And a notice. Tomorrow, Wednesday, November 25, 2020, at 10:00 p.m. vote. Thank you very much and truly as I said last time, rest because tomorrow we'll raise our hands a lot. SESSION FINISHED IN 20.10 HOURS
