ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9649	Good morning, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Before we move to a representative club position according to Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 4th session with five new points, the proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted to you by electronic means. Three points for which you received information in templates 2, 3 and 4 have been referred to a written objection to the emergency procedure of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives so that I left them out because we have to vote on them. Well, then I put the other five points as a proposal. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a single law is subject to an emergency procedure, only one is now, and this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed amendment? Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9650	Thank you. Your Honor. I must protest the way this law is put on the agenda. Namely, such a serious law that even violates some fundamental rights of our citizens, such as home invulnerability, was developed over the weekend. I have information that the government and government services have been working on such a serious law over the weekend that is affecting the rights of our citizens and I protest against putting such a law in such a way, so badly prepared on the agenda in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9651	Does that mean you're against it or are you just protesting? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we'll have to vote on that law then. Since we do not have enough MPs at the moment, I see by the halls that there are not enough MPs and MPs, then we will not include him but we will vote on his loading when the conditions are met. How appropriate. 225th century 4th of the written objections to the remaining points of the proposal for complementarity of the agenda have not been determined that all these items are included in the agenda of the 4th session. Now one more thing, based on art. 227. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Finance and the State Budget propose the implementation of a unified discussion on the following four points: Final Proposal for a Law on the Deposit Insurance System Act, Final Proposal for a Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Credit Institutions and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Any objections to a united debate? If not, I find that we will conduct a united debate on these legal proposals after hearing colleagues and colleagues who will speak on behalf of the clubs. He will now speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9715	Thank you, Mr. President. As two basic principles, action and decision-making during the global pandemics, as caused by Covid-19, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been legitimateized to implement 2 principles. The principle of effectiveness, i.e. effectiveness and the principle of proportionality. This is what we got in the light of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against.../incomprehensible... infectious diseases. The principle of effectiveness or effectiveness should be to ensure that the proposed model ensures that the measures taken meet the legitimate objectives set and the principle of proportionality that these measures and their intensity are at the same time such that they strictly meet the needs of the given moment, that they last only as long as the circumstances require, in order to stress, by the Constitution of guaranteed freedom and the rights of citizens at all times only to the extent necessary and which corresponds to the nature of the need for their restriction. In principle, we can agree on those two principles, in theory. In practice, unfortunately, there are some other principles that have not been declared, which are certainly being implemented. One is so-called. principle, if you pass-through. It was a principle that was used when mobile tracking was wanted and it gave up, and it seems to me now that it is the principle that is trying to use in a way that the constitutional, constitutional right of non-violence of the home of this one is bypassed so-called. By ratting out neighbors from other neighbors to have parties at home, then mysteriously the police or civil protection will determine whether 10 or less people gathered for the party. So it's about one completely unserious, reckless, and I would even tell the idea that came up in a panic attack when the government somehow lost control of the spread of the disease and now these ideas simply show that it doesn't know what it's doing anymore. So the idea of people ratting out their neighbors, which was usually promoted by the health minister, is something that hasn't been recorded in recent history, somewhere since the 1970s, even in the '80s. Sir, that was already abandoned as the principle of the work of the then secret service. The second principle is the principle of wandering, so once you wear masks, don't wear masks, shield masks, masks don't protect us, we've now concluded that masks protect, it's not bad, but the principle of wandering among other things is obvious in that some gatherings are forbidden, some gatherings are allowed, some gatherings are allowed only until they are maintained, and after that they are no longer important because they are held once a year and of course citizens look at decisions in such a way and in such decisions. The third principle is the principle of selfishness, when it is well-deserved is the government, when it is wrongly guilty are irresponsible citizens who do not behave in accordance with the measures that the headquarters has adopted. The fourth principle was the principle of demeaning the opposition, so the president of the HDZ Club, for example, described the two-thirds majority of measures as being held in the Assembly by very irresponsible individuals, but I would like to remind you that most of the measures concerning covid have been taken by more than 101 votes in HS that require a two-thirds majority. Both the first law at the beginning of the 3rd month and the measures to assist the economy which did not require a two-thirds majority and one Rules of Procedure and other Business etc., therefore measures which, according to their content, affect to the extent that human rights should be applied. 17. We would certainly bring the two-thirds majority after the debate and arguments, but the principle of disenfranchisement of the opposition is in fact the principle of avoiding the debate on measures, so that it is possible to achieve this over the weekend to put it on the agenda and vote on Wednesday, which is not bad, so it is certainly possible and would be on the principle of effectiveness. But still, leave your cell phones, leave your private apartments, and implement those measures that can be taken to stop the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9716	Thank you. Injury of my colleague Bačić's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9717	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure because my colleague, Bauk, said... he disrespected other MPs, said that I said that there were non-serious MPs sitting in the House. That's not what I said, though, it's now he said this hour from this pay phone that it is true that there are non-serious representatives in the House but I said that the government and the ruling majority came to realize the measures taken against this epidemic on the basis of an article. 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9718	I have to give you a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was a pure replica. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9719	Mr. Chairman of Mr. Jandrokovic. I see that there are more than 25 of us in this room, and since measures have been taken that neither in... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9720	My colleague Mlinarić, please sit down and please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9721	Mr Jandrokovic. 236. Let me have 30 seconds... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9722	No, I won't because you've completely misread the decision that has been made, so 25 decisions are not about representative bodies, you've completely intervened, and you're misleading the public and the representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9723	I didn't misread it, I certainly didn't, and the Rules of Procedure says 236 you have to let me have 30 seconds to say mine, so give me a warning if I said something wrong or anything, you need to know that. [[The incursion president: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9724	Come on, please. Here you go, fellow Skoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9725	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Well, you've injured the Rules of Procedure. 236 you and I know that, so in art. The 236. Exclusions say you have to give whoever is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure 30 seconds, wait until it's over, and then you can comment on what he said. So it says, that's right, we can change but now it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9795	We're going to the 6th debate now, Green-left bloc advocates' club, respected colleague Sandra Bencic, please. Mask, colleague Mlinarić, mask is left.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9796	Your Honor, I thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, and I don't know how many times we have to talk today about the model management of this health crisis, and first of all I'm going to say that it is clear to all of us here and from the opposition and from the position that we are in a completely new situation and that it is clear that no one can argue with accuracy what can and cannot be effective and that it is clear that all countries are testing, trying different measures to reach certain results. But what distinguishes us, unfortunately, from other countries is the complete inability to manage the crisis in this period from summer to here. So we don't really have a crisis management that would lead to what was crucial in the first wave, which is citizens' trust. The citizens' trust is no longer available. That this is the case, it also proves that the ruling HDZ and its government have prepared amendments and additions to the laws that provide for so many dragon sanctions that when you look at it, when you look at how it is drawn up and proposed, you clearly see that it is a reflection of the government's impotence and that it is a transfer, a complete transfer of responsibility for the crisis to citizens. And that's what all of us here from the opposition can't allow. Yesterday we counted 74 dead from Covid. The number of infected is not relevant at all anymore because our testing capacities are too low. Especially after the weekend, we know the number we have is irrelevant. In fact, the crisis is not managed but there is only this surgical response on the principle of political opportunity without the government clearly taking responsibility for the political decisions it makes without the Parliament taking political responsibility for the decisions it makes. A month and several days ago, we made a proposal for a conclusion in the parliamentary procedure that clearly detected some 6 key points that should be implemented for better management of the Covid crisis. The first and the main thing was to restore contact detection. You know that for a month and a half, healthcare professionals can no longer track the contact of the sick. The World Health Organization, all countries facing the Covid crisis, say contact detection is a key first step. We gave it up, this government gave it up and it hasn't been done in a month and a half. It's not a system that could allow contacts to detect quickly and efficiently, but rather, we've put it on health care workers, as if we have extras, so they have nothing to do, but they call people. We have thousands, tens, hundreds of thousands of people on the stock market that we could pull and put in the system that made the system. We could agree with the telecoms to create applications that would allow direct messages to come to those who have been detected as mobile contacts, almost everyone in Croatia today has a cell phone. We could have made a system using the Red Cross and volunteers, which also has tens of thousands in Croatia. None of it was made, hands up from that part. We could have set up a system of faster and better testing earlier, when we said that a month and a half ago so that we could actually isolate all those who are potential super spreaders of infection and that gave up. We asked for a month and a half ago to invest in a hospital system, invest in healthcare professionals and start managing the crisis or health system centrally, so centrally manage both resources and people and equipment to avoid this situation that we are in today. The Varazdin hospital has been cramping for two weeks and asking for help, not having oxygen, oxygen enough the other day. All this says is that the entire system is still not managed centrally and is not distributed to the resource in a way that is given where it is urgent and where it should be. The measures you have now prescribed or the sanctions you propose, other than what the dragons require, some of them and entry and restriction [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] privacy at home. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Bencic]] It's something that the opposition must not be allowed. [[/Intruder: Comrade Bencic, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9797	Thank you. Comrade Oreshkovic, before you arrive, I have a question for you. So, you are on November 26th or your club sent a memo to the HS Secretariat that you will spend the next 7 days in self-insulation due to contact with the infected person. Also yesterday your club sent a memo to the HS Secretariat that you will be in self-insulation, you and colleague Mrak-Taritash. You're here now, I don't know how I can figure this one out and what's this about? Keep your mask up, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9798	So, I'm in self-insulation during that period as determined by the general practice doctor, that's 10 days from the contact I had with the person who was diagnosed with covid, and how you designed the system and how those 10 days are accounted for is not my responsibility but my responsibility but the responsibility of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9799	Wait a minute, wait a minute, don't move on me now. So, on November 26th, a memo was sent from your club, which is six days ago, that you will be seven days in self-insulation and yesterday from your club also a memo that you will today be in self-insulation, you are not in self-insulation. Do you have the test that you're negative?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9800	I don't have a test because... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9801	Then we're going to do a session interruption, we're going to do a session interruption to determine the facts, I'm not going to let this happen, this is a threat to the health of MPs and MPs, 10 minutes off. It's 10.09 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:22 A.M.]] I call on my colleague Oreskovic, I have now received from her club information that they later received confirmation of the temporary incompetence for the work that expired yesterday, so today she may be present at the session, so I would ask her to return, we do not know where. All right, then we'll see when Col. Oreshkovic gets back to see if he wants to talk more. Thank you. She will now speak for her colleague Oreskovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. I would pray only on this case, we learned that coordination between representatives and their clubs is necessary because the party's representative club, or the option to which colleague Oreskovic belongs, informed us that she was in self-insulation, but her self-insulation expired yesterday. So, please take care of it so that we don't put ourselves in an awkward situation and the MPs and myself as chairman because I have to react to it, you understand. So, please coordinate and accurate information by the clubs who is in self-insulation, who is in isolation, who can't attend and who wants to be connected video through. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9850	Thank you, Mr. President. Confidence is one of the problems of our judiciary, but certainly not the only one. By trust in the judiciary, Croatia is at the very bottom of the EU countries, and this problem cannot even be solved unless the competent authorities within the justice system see that the problem exists, do not understand what their task is in solving this problem and do not know how the problem should begin at all. And with this free speech, I want to draw attention to the weaknesses within the justice system itself, and I hope that the problems I'm talking about will serve as an incentive to get rid of them. Namely, the DORH's ethical commission came in a few days ago to believe that membership in the Masons is incompatible with the conduct of a state's attorney or deputy state's attorney. That opinion raises several very serious questions. The first thing that enters the eyes is a small number of objects that this body has ever dealt with before. And the other problem is the unwarranted length of the case resolution. The opinion expressed in relation to the former chief state attorney should have been spoken at a time when the topic was current, not 9 months later. Unnecessarily and unwarranted difficulties in taking a stand in this case have proved to be indecisive, and undecided means weak. A clear, clear and unequivocal standard as considered appropriate, which is inappropriate for the conduct of a state attorney's office would send a message to not only other judicial officials but also to the public and citizens that the judiciary is consciously important to preserve its impartiality and that it is only able to identify and clean the weeds out of its ranks, but obviously it is not. After being resolved from the post of Attorney General Drazen Jelenic for 9 months and continues to work in the DORH, working perhaps on cases he should never have done so. Moreover, now that the Ethics Commission has explained its position, information comes from the judiciary that Drazen Jelenić will be asked to show whether he has stopped being a member of the Masonic Association in the meantime and that is what concerns me most. So, this circumstance whether Drazen Jelenić stopped being a member of the Mason 9 months ago or only now does absolutely nothing change. Drazen Jelenic must be removed from the DORH system because he has sworn an oath to the Masons, because he has publicly stated that membership in the Masons impotes him. During his time in the DORH system, Drazen Jelenic swore to remain silent with his honor and conscience about the customs and inner things of free masonry and not to speak to anyone about it, that he would be obeyed by the laws of brotherhood and the hammering of the master, that he would support the brothers with the masseous advice and work and that the secrets of each brother of the Mason would be kept as his own, and the oath of the builder's word would be regarded as a sacred vow. At that point, he humiliated the constitution, the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the ethical code of state lawyers to whom he had to be loyal and loyal. And a person who does not understand the incompatibility of the mass rules with the rules binding on judicial officials cannot remain in the judicial system regardless of whether his membership in the Masons has ceased in the meantime. And if this circumstance is not understood by the competent judicial authorities, primarily the State Attorney's Council, then the problem of a fallen judiciary is much more difficult and much deeper than a stray person in a DORH system where it doesn't belong. That at least the problem with a clean political order is in political corruption, that I can at least say that the State Attorney's Council as well as the State Judicial Council is weak and unable to carry out a cleanup in their ranks because they are obedient to the parliamentary majority, no. Unfortunately, the problem is much longer, harder, and much deeper, the problem is that their awareness of how judicial independence should be protected only in the world. In fact, the opinion of the DORH Ethics Commission on Massanes is one of the most important things that this body has ever brought and everyone knows that it refers to Drazen Jelenić, but nevertheless the opinion is anonymous. In line with the views of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, anonymous opinions relating to state lawyers, the judge is also guilty of a bad path. And if this is about a conflict of legal principles or a conflict of two laws or a conflict of jurisdiction and authority of certain state bodies then we must resolve these conflicts here in HS. That's our job. As well as state officials, both judges and state lawyers perform public duties on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Croatia and the public has the right to know how they perform their duties. In relation to the judiciary, if we want to restore heavy public trust, we must see that all irregularities within the system are detected in a timely manner and that the competent authorities react to them in time, decisively and clearly. Anonymising the opinion of the Ethics Commission, as would be an anonymous opinion of other bodies, such as the DOV or DSV, sends a message that the judiciary is hiding its dirty laundry instead of washing it. And hiding and protecting those who have broken the rules demoralizes the system And the manifest sign of weakness. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9851	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of free speech, so now we're going to go to the agenda. We are going to the 2nd debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9889	Three years ago. We were abandoned by a Croatian hero, a Croatian martyr General Slobodan Praljak. Two days ago, we celebrated exactly the three-year anniversary of his message he sent us from The Hague, the strongest message ever received by the Croatian people. And here you'd wonder why we haven't heard a word about this sad anniversary, the message General Praljak sent to us on the most powerful, most powerful of those mainstream media? Not a single national television, not one, not a single major newspaper has said a word about Slobodan Praljko. And what he would have warned about, he would have warned of a fear on social networks, wherever anyone mentioned it, wrote the name of General Pralj, a Croatian martyr, immediately being blocked, thrown off that social network, and that is something that the Croatian state must deal with, but I'm afraid there is, that there is interest in this Croatian government. This is the Croatian Constitution, the most important document of every country, so of course our countries of Croatia. And there's an article, it's article no. 62nd, that Art. 62nd in this booklet that we have all received and the previous mandate is not written properly, it is written by mistake, this article is not fully written because this article was changed on today 2013, and it was changed by the people, it changed in the referendum. For those who forgot, on this day seven years ago. The Croatian people changed the 62nd article of the Croatian Constitution in a way that added "marriage is the life union of women and men". HS, the Croatian government did not find several thousand kunas to print a few hundred new constitutions that fit, meaning the real state of things. As millions of kunas are spent, billions of kunas on everything and everything, we welcome another term of office that the constitution is not printed, but there is one little piece of paper that was inserted into this booklet. And from this place for the second time since I have spoken and called for it, I call for the presidency of HS and all those responsible to finally spend a few hundred kunas and to print an appropriate constitution. When we talk about referendums, there were more attempts at a referendum, this was the only successful referendum, we tried to cancel the Istanbul referendum, we failed, we showed a change, we tried to change the election law by referendum, we failed, not because we didn't collect enough signatures, but because someone counted those signatures in their own way. But we will not give up regardless of what the counters are still there and the people are still there and we will again be collecting signatures, this time we will be collecting for a referendum on the EUR. Let the people say, let the people say what they have to say about the EUR. Finally, he would pay attention to one current fact, which is a famous measure of 4,000 kuna, which helps Croatian entrepreneurs or citizens who would probably stay on the street if the government did not give them 4,000 kuna. Here from here I call on the Croatian government, not this populationism, but here I really think, because in Croatia today there are 15,000 around people living on politics, and they have management salaries, 15,000 casta 15,000, 15,000 kuna salaries have about 15,000, they are all mahogany related to the ruling, that in a sign of solidarity, but not just solidarity, let it be a significant amount, as long as these measures are implemented by all these managers and quasi managers also pay salaries of 4000 kuna. Here I mean, of course, MPs in HS. So let's turn the caste 15,000 into a caste of 4,000 at least for a while while the crown is a crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u9953	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my speech and in the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to refer to a series of statements that preceded this report, which relate to the conduct of the Civil Protection Staff of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this fight against the Crown of the Virus. First of all, almost all MPs disputed the civil protection headquarters's behaviour by calling for its unconstitutional nature because to date Croatia has not declared a state of emergency and because of the fact that their allegations do not comply with Article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. and I would make it clear here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, that this is a question and that the question is whether or not the Government or the Civil Protection Staff has decided, in accordance with the Constitution, on the basis of an assessment of the constitutionality of all the measures taken by the Civil Protection Staff, that the conduct of the Civil Protection Staff is absolutely in line with the Croatian Constitution. In particular, all the laws adopted in the HS and the laws resulting from the measures of the Civil Protection Staff shall be based on the Article. 16. The Constitution of the Along the way should be added that the law that is before us and which we will discuss these days concerns the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, also by virtue of Article. 16. A constitution that states that certain human rights and freedoms can be restricted by law, so by law in the event of a threat to the health of our citizens. It is this fact that due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, there is a danger and danger to the health of Croatian citizens, and then certain actions and certain measures can be suspended by individual rights and freedoms of Croatian citizens, and in this sense it is done. So this is how we act in accordance with the Constitution, and I see no reason, nor the need to re-repeat almost daily decisions of the Constitutional Court. At that time, we argued when it came to this model of adopting measures by the Civil Protection Staff, with the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that in addition to the principle of efficiency and proportionality in the measures adopted by the Civil Protection Staff, we are also guided by the principle of efficiency. I would like and ask our friends from the opposition to show us what the EU Member State has remained in implementing measures at the level of their parliaments. Nowhere in the EU Member States, the parliaments of these countries have taken effective measures, implementing measures to protect individual countries from the pandemic of covida-19. Parliaments of all Member States have delegated these measures to the level of government, and in some countries to their bodies, and in some countries, for example, in France at the level of the Minister of Health. Therefore, parliaments, as with HS, establish a framework, which is the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, is the Law on the Civil Protection System, which these measures can be adopted, and the implementation and adoption of these measures itself is brought down to the level of the Government or Civil Protection Staff, but again with the control of the Government. And the debate I heard this morning shows how difficult it would be to take measures in HS for two-thirds of the majority when they must be spotty, efficient and fast because we are often trapped in the frameworks of our own political parties from which we come and do not see the integrity of the measures being taken at Croatian level. Therefore, it is more than clear that only effective rapid measures can be taken when they are adopted in the manner provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is based on art. 16th Croatian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u10023	Okay. All right, I agree with that, but this was a completely false interpretation, a false information that led to the delusion of both our viewers and those who were following HS's work, and I ask you, as parliamentary advocates, to at least what the laws are, which are decisions that come from the state to interpret correctly. It is now up to counterpart Mlinarić on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u10024	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about the evils of the HDZ in Vukovar, unfortunately two days ago. Brigadier in peace and State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Stjepan Sučić, in an alcoholic state, opposes the Croatian police officer in the pursuit of order and peace and refuses to give him an ID card. Unsatisfactory to know that the Croatian police officer does not recognize him as a deserved citizen, brigades in peace and state secretary and protects Defence Minister Tom Medveda strengthens his aggression towards the Croatian police officer. Feeling threatened by the execution of his duty, a Croatian police officer is asking the intervention police for help because of the demands made by Croatian police officers to respect Croatia's laws in Sucic cause further anger and dissatisfaction. Because of the aggressive behaviour and insults of Croatian police officers and the threat of weapons with the use of physical force Sucic has been detained. The strength of resistance to the Croatian police tells the police that there has been damage to inventory within the locals. An additional outburst of anger that Croatian police officers do not recognise after all, says when entering the official premises of the Croatian police in a way that damages state property. The event wants to reduce and to cover up, public information only comes out after 24 hours, according to the old stalking party's manner of condemning the phenomenon, and the other save, despite the information irrefutablely indicating that Sucic was wrong about the laws of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Medved declared I heard with Sučić there are many more unknowns, and from the government of the Republic of Croatia send a statement, if that's true. That there are no strangers and that everything is true, confirms the extorted resignation of Stjepan Sucic, who at the moment of lack of arguments to justify his behaviour in an alcoholic state, among other things, curses the mother of a Chetnik police officer, they say in wine is true. How many members of the HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia need to drink to speak out of them a real opinion on the policy of reconciliation and co-operation that sobers up at every opportunity to defend the air? This case shows that the policy of reconciliation and co-operation imposed by Prime Minister Plenkovic among some government officials has not truly come to life. Why are they in controlled situations acting on one, and when they are in a circle of friends and defenders, in another way, that is, when they will suppress their consciences and blush before their comrades on the grounds that this must be done because of the pressure from the EU, which, time, will show whether it is true. In addition to the above-mentioned behaviour, the Brigadier of Sučić paints the real state and relationship of members of the Croatian government when it comes to the work of Croatian state institutions and property of the Republic of Croatia. Nothing is sacred to them when their position and privileges are at stake. The cause of the conduct of Croatian police officers in Vukovar is not banal. They have acted on emerging demands stemming from the government's decision to prevent the spread of a life-threatening disease by citizens. The decision was made by a government whose members do not respect the decision. As Andrej Plenkovic loves it, let the Croatian public know, too. And then there's still a wave of hands, this one. Is this the new face of HDZ? There is nothing strange about it that Stephen Sucic and his behavior is not common. Normally, according to the HDZ model. Who can help us? We're in power. If some brave and determined individual dares to apply the laws of the Republic of Croatia in order to protect other citizens and the property of the Republic of Croatia, they will call on him to be protected by Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Tomo Medved and will also be called to the SOA, which is indeed inadmissible. But it's not over. The fate of Krunoslav Sheremet has not yet been resolved. The decision should be taken by the Administrative Council of the Memorial Centre, and bear and Sučić shall sit in it. I'm calling on the Bear to relieve Sheremet, and it's best if he resigns, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u10082	The first in line is a respected colleague, Nino Rasdic, on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u10083	My colleagues and colleagues. It's about the fact that the Coronal Virus situation is serious, and I'm witnessing it myself. As a relatively young, fit, non-smoking, otherwise excellent health, I ended up with pneumonia in an oxygen hospital and I'm not the only one. So we at the Mosta Club are first of all the lives, health and safety of Croatian citizens, and we are prepared to be unaware of the potential loss of popularity, we would be willing to take stricter measures than those you plan to do now, but if we had sufficient scientific and other rational justification why we are introducing them. I'm afraid that's not the case now. The Corona carries lives directly, but also indirectly. For nine months, the public has often sent contradictory messages, including from prominent scientists and staff members. People are therefore confused and untrustworthy. We also see from the Hrebak case to the last Sucic case that the ruling nomenclature does not consider that they are not worth what they would impose on the rest of Croatia. The illogicalities are based on banal examples, why football, not rowing or outdoor athletics, can be played by the 1st basketball league, and can't be county or cadet, why coffee outside can be made from a bakery or from a gas station, but not from a cafe to a grotesque tied to a new strict penalty gathering of more than ten people in a private house or apartment. For example, my friend Davor Jantolek of Dubrava has nine children, so he, wife and nine children, are already in violation. Will Janta have to send a child out into the street all the time to this 14-year-old boy so they won't be in violation? You're instigating snitching by your neighbors, given the miles from which the creators of the move come don't wonder at such totalitarian measures. Prime Minister Plenkovic pointed out on May 26th that his government won covid-19, so when it is good, and for that good condition in May you paid a very high price of total imprisonment, so when you give it a good credit to yourself, and now that you've screwed up, you want us all to share responsibility and guilt. It won't work. You bypass the Parliament all the time, you've smudged the headquarters that hasn't filed a single report yet, and now you expect this same offended Parliament to support your smoke screen inconclusive measures. It won't work. If at the beginning of the pandemic you did not want to activate the art. 17. The constitution why you are instead of an art. 47. The laws on the protection of the population against infectious diseases activated the provision of art. 22. Civil Protection Act? The amendment of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases that followed in April tried to solve the problem. These amendments allow retroactive application of the law or seek to give additional legitimacy to the headquarters decisions. Why has the decision not been made by the health minister, in particular no state of emergency has been declared? Those questions are still not answered. It is now part of the Cardel killing of people in the concept of formalism and nonsense. For example, the law does not provide for an exception to punishment for people who have already been over the crown and are scientifically proven no longer able to infect others or be infected for at least half a year. Reigning late for reality again, they suggested e-supervise via their cell phones this spring, and while a heated debate was being held overnight, it became groundless because the number of infected fell. There are some indications and God forbid it is, following the number of newly hospitalized the last few days that perhaps the peak of this wave has been behind us for a few days. Will you again attribute any improvement in the situation to your visionary measures that I have no doubt that you will adopt this week or that you will analyse where everything has been wrong and what lessons can we learn from it for the future? And the first is that, most often, those who are full of the mouth of reason and science are making completely irrational moves out of taking care of others. No activation of Art. 17. the constitutional justification of new measures and penalties is questionable because it is not possible by ordinary law to cedify the constitutional rights guaranteed unless the constitution itself provides for it. For example, Art. 55th Constitution, right to work and freedom of work, art. 34th, which says home is invulnerable. Is the problem in the two-thirds majority in the assembly to be secured? Our hands will for all the measures that are scientific and rationally founded, I have no doubt the majority of the colleagues in the opposition. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u10094	Let's move on, now it'll be up to the club of MPs, the club of IDS MPs, respected colleague Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u10095	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian economy fell in the 3rd quarter by 10% compared to the period, for the same period last year. Given that a strong decline was reported in the 2nd quarter, it is clear that Croatia is in a difficult recession. The situation in which we are located is extremely worrying because the state itself, not only offers solutions to huge problems, but it creates new and significantly worsens the difficult situation itself. For example, new measures in the fight against coronary pandemics that have been brought in recklessly, without quality preparation and analysis and which are nothing but bad improvisation. Two weeks ago, we were assured that everything was under control and that there would be no bigger problems and a new lockdown even though we could all see that other European countries were facing a new wave of pandemic. However, the government and the headquarters reiterated for selfish political reasons, interest, reacted late and inappropriately. The measures were calculated until the Memory Column passed, leading the health system to the edge of the shooting and the complete collapse. And then what happens? The government and the Staff, realizing that they are no longer in control of the situation, are bringing forward hasty, reckless and illogical measures, which, if they are not immediately abolished or modified, will have far-reaching consequences. The arbitration and inconsistencies of the measures have completely undermined citizens' confidence in the headquarters, so the measures taken by the Staff have been welcomed by the citizens mostly by the revolution and bitterness. Unfortunately, the headquarters made sure that their journey from heroes to complete disappointment was very brief. At this point, it is particularly problematic that it has given up a regional approach that has proved effective in the fight against the virus and with us, but also in other parts of Europe. All Istrian mayors and mayors of Istria's County sent an appeal a few days ago to the prime minister of the government asking for a postponement of the application of measures to hosts in the Istrian county. They thus sent a message that measures should not be arbitrary but must be based on clear indicators, and according to the epidemiologists, I repeat, epidemiologists or professions, catering facilities in Istria, are not the focal point of infection. Istrian hosts have so far shown that they are able to organize and carry out their activities during the pandemic and there is no reason to even justify punishing them in this way. Local headquarters know best the opportunities in their area and we all have the same goal, which is to stop the virus, and at the same time allow people to live. I repeat, when we talk about bringing down.../incomprehensible/... powers to the local level, we also bring down responsibility. Local headquarters, at this point particularly annoying sounds like threats to citizens and calls on neighbors to rat on each other. The government and headquarters have shown by example what selfish and irresponsible behavior means and are now hypocritically pointing to the citizens. I call upon them to land, to save what is to be saved, and to return regional access to the fight against the coronary virus. Listen to local headquarters and let those who behave responsibly continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19302	As we decided at the beginning of the session, we will now have a united debate on the following 4 points: - Final proposal of the Deposit Insurance System Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 53. - Final proposal of the Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 54. - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 32 and - Final proposal of the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 33. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. And I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19303	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. In front of us, as you have heard, a package of 4 laws, i.e. amendments and additions and final bill proposals, are all actually related to one common objective, the improvement of the financial market, insurance, security, the role of deposits and practically the citizens themselves when we look at the global economy, which means the financial system itself. Of course, offered primarily by the financial crisis of 2008. The European Commission and the EU have just set out in the special package to ensure the sustainability of the financial system itself and to avoid the effects of the crisis on the financial system itself on the overall economy. In parallel with this, Croatia is in, in the European process of the European Course Mechanism and harmonizes its financial system with the European system, and we have in particular with these 4 laws, especially in 2 of them the same application and coordination with exactly the same goal. As for the first of these, as far as the Deposit Insurance System Act is concerned, its objective is, in fact, as much as possible to predict and regulate situations when a credit institution fails, which can lead to exactly what I was saying, legal uncertainty regarding the protection of the depositors themselves. Therefore, in order to protect precisely the financial stability of the system, the law itself prescribes the activation and insurance of deposits in the event of an insurance case or the opening of a forced liquidation procedure against a credit institution. So, as in Art. 5. The main objectives of the deposit insurance system are, above all, the preservation of trust in the financial system, the contribution to the stability of the financial system itself and the protection against the loss of deposits. So I think it's absolutely very clear. So, as far as these changes and laws are concerned, there are also certain powers, including the very name of the current State Deposit Insurance Agency and the resolution of banks, which are now renamed to the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency or Colloquially in the follow-up text of the Agency. What is important is that by adopting a new and Renaissance Act which we will also and which is the same in this package, certain powers are changed, so we need to know that the main regulators in Croatia are HNB and HANFA, so first of all, for the sake of better preservation of the financial system itself, they apply these measures and these direct amendments and laws, changes and additions to these laws have a direct impact on themselves, on the very work of these institutions. So we're actually in line with this with the legal gain and what's new and in, I'm just going to briefly count some of the most important news from the existing arrangement. Therefore, in order to ensure the more efficient use of funds from the deposit insurance system itself, the fund itself would be this, the insurance fund would consist of two parts, a basic fund and an additional deposit insurance fund, with the purpose of, of course, the underlying fund is precisely that at every given time, it must be equipped with assets at a level of one per cent of the total amount of... those deposits of all credit institutions authorised to work in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the purpose of the additional fund is to just supplement the underlying fund, support in the collection of export premiums, use of the additional Deposit Insurance Fund for the purpose of taking measures to prevent the occurrence of the secured case, and support the financing of the recovery of credit institutions, as well as support for the financing of forced liquidation of credit systems, is also one of the laws that lies before us today. And the target level of the additional fund is 1.5% of the total, stated total, total amount of secured deposits. As regards the financing of the deposit insurance system, thus harmonising the source of funding according to the EU acquis in a way that explicitly states that the deposit insurance system cannot be financed on the burden of taxpayers but solely on the burden of credit institutions. Something that directly corresponds to that crisis in 2008 when we had a case if the states had to rescue themselves from credit institutions. Art. 8 states that the coverage of each deposit up to EUR 100,000 is even increasing to up, by EUR 30,000 for certain cases as regards the level of coverage. The very role of the agency as former DAB now, so the agencies as specialized non-profit financial institutions are not really its goal is to protect the deposits of all secured depositors, and to preserve the trust of citizens and other participants in... as I said, the stability of the credit system itself, and the possible controlled exit from the credit institution market which is unable to meet the required regulatory requirements, etc., means that all, in fact, limit the spillover of all the negative effects of a single credit institution's failure in relation to other participants. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the role of the agency is adjusted, so it ceases to be one of the rehabilitation bodies, but remains in the process of recovery as a body run by a national recovery fund. It also changes the structure, so as far as the Agency's bodies are concerned, instead of the administration, the new body is a supervisory board which members and directors have a 4g supervision. and may be re-appointed. As regards the very differences compared to the first reading, other than the nomotechnically developed articles in Art. 17. It is further pointed out that the Agency is obliged to apply the minimum cost principle in the use of additional Deposit Insurance Fund funds to take measures to reduce the risk of performance, performance, the risk of a case taking place with a view to increasing liquidity and the insolvency of a credit institution operating with difficulties. Next, in Art. In the 19th year, after the completion of the compensation procedure, the Agency will submit to credit institutions a report on the compensation of the credit institution's depositor against which the secured case took place with a view to showing the used sources and costs of the agencies, thus increasing the amount of transparency. And in art. 22 of the final draft law provides for the possibility for the cyclical coordination agency to achieve through an increase or reduction of premiums. As regards the proposal of MPs and MPs, the esteemed representative Martina Grman Kiziquat proposed that the conditions to be met by the members of the Supervisory Board and the Director of the Agency should be detailed, and the proposal was partially accepted in such a way that it was prescribed that the Agency’s director should also meet the requirements of competence and education relating to members themselves. Here, as far as the deposit insurance system is concerned, that would be an introductory explanation. We will immediately parallel to what is being added is, given the insurance of the deposit itself and the use of the same is related to forced liquidation, so as to the second reading of the Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions. The law therefore regulates the conditions for opening and ending the procedure of forced liquidation of credit institutions, the legal consequences of their opening and enforcement of rules, procedures and instruments in the procedures of forced liquidation of credit institutions as well as the powers, tasks of the body in the winding-up process and entities in the application of this law. First of all, the aim of this law is to shorten the duration of the bankruptcy process, control the exit of a failed credit institution from the market with a view to reducing the risk and spilling negative effects on the rest of the financial market, practically what I said in the introduction, we can all unite all objectives together and all, more or less, intertwine all 4 of these laws and, of course, the quick and effective joint settlement of the credit institution's creditors in forced liquidation, the preservation of the value of the financial assets and the cashing of the credit institution's assets as soon as possible. As for some other novelties, therefore, as bodies in the forced liquidation process, the Commercial Court in Zagreb is determined, for all, therefore, since we know that we have about 20 days,... 20 credit institutions, more or less, are responsible for the Commercial Court in Zagreb and they are all practically almost established in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not everything, but we know how they do business. Liquidator and supervisory liquidating body and the congregation of creditors. The proposal to initiate the winding-up procedure is submitted by the Croatian National Bank, setting out the conditions which indicate that the credit institution is failing or will fail and extremely, liquidator according to the prescribed conditions. Yes, the duties and powers of the body in the coercive winding-up procedure, the temporary ban, following the decision to make the proposal, are further regulated, in fact, by a plan of forced winding-up to which the prior consent is given by the supervisory winding-up body, hence the former DAB, the current Agency and the implementation of the winding-up procedure itself. The deadline for ending the winding-up procedure shall also be set for a period of 3 years from the date of opening of the forced liquidation. The deadline is instructive, but what's safe and in, visible from current practices is that some bank bankruptcy lasted 15 and 20 years, and even some always last. Some of these are also known to the public themselves and so on. These ribbons have come into existence and that is exactly why these amendments and additions to the law, namely the new law, to avoid it, all with the same goal. Furthermore, as regards the difference between the first and second readings, this nomotechnical addition of certain articles has been completed. 13 in order to ensure the clarity of the law and the whole procedure preceding the submission of a proposal to initiate the forced liquidation procedure. Therefore, it is prescribed that the Council of the CNB will make its decision to submit a proposal for the initiation of a forced liquidation procedure in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the recovery of credit institutions, investment firms and in the case where the CNB is, in accordance with the instructions of the European Central Bank, abolishing the authorisation for work. It's finished. 37 in a way that when taking legal actions with the purpose of the total or partial sale of assets, the liquidator does not need the consent of the credit institution, in the process of forced liquidation of shareholders, creditors or any third party and does not apply procedural provisions governing the business of companies and the capital market to such legal actions. It's done. It's done. It's done. 44, also extremely important, which prescribes responsibility for damages. This introduces an even more precise definition of the bankruptcy law that remains, let's say a roof law regarding the procedure. All that is not governed by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the bankruptcy law. However, it is stated here and we have stated that the liquidator and the supervisory liquidation body must carry out duties under this law with the care of the orderly and conscientious economic operator in order to make that distinction and responsibility for their work for some not even harsh injuries of attention. Furthermore, deleted are still art. 79 and 80 which are considered to be excessive because they have a full law on the opening of a forced liquidation procedure have the exact same position as any other credit institution. So, in conclusion, we think that if there were to be a forced winding-up process, this would, above all, lead to a more efficient, more efficient and efficient and better treatment and resolution of the underlying problem with the clear goal that I have already cited several times. The following law before us is the Credit Institutions Act, otherwise, the Credit Institutions Act, which regulates the conditions for establishment, so it is one roof law actually for establishment, regulates the conditions for establishment, business, termination of work of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia and supervisory supervisions of their business, that is, under conditions under which certain legal entities established outside the Republic of Croatia may provide banking and/or financial services in the Republic of Croatia. So, as I said in line with the risk reduction package, the Risk Reduction Measures or RRM packages continue to reform the EU banking system precisely with the clear objective of preserving the resilience of the European banking system, strengthening the capital needs of banks, and the measures to improve and the credit capacity of banks themselves, primarily for financing SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and infrastructure projects. The RRM package itself consists of two regulations and two directives that amend regulations in the Republic of Croatia that have been transposed between others and the Credit Institutions Act, but also later the law on which we will also have talks here on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies. What is important is what I first said that Croatia became a Member State and a participant in a single supervisory mechanism and a single rehabilitation mechanism in July 2020. These are two basic mechanisms together with the European deposit insurance system that make up the banking union. First of all, what is most important, therefore, because of the efficient and consistent functioning of this unique supervisory mechanism is responsible and the central bank and it has directly taken over and directly oversees eight credit institutions and six banks and two savings banks in Croatia, while the CNB remains in charge of less significant credit institutions as a national supervisor. Of course, this opens up the possibility that we first have the opportunity and insight into the business of the queens of our banks. What is changed, therefore, is the obligation of licensing for parent financial holding and parent mixed financial holding, a credit institution based in the Republic of Croatia which is a member of a group from a third country operating more than one institution in the EU, whose total value of assets is equal to or greater than 40 billion euros, is obliged to have an intermediate parent company in the EU, so that licensing as a credit institution for an investment company whose assets is... More than 30 billion euros. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] What is good for categories of small and simple credit institutions is prescribed by facilitating regulatory requirements regarding the supervisory board itself, the reception committees that are abolished, etc. We believe that it is even better arranged and more obligations of the CNB are prescribed to inform the European Banking Supervisory Authority in the event of a situation that points to money laundering and terrorist financing in the credit institution. And what are some of the most important differences between readings is that the power is given to the CNB as the competent authority to determine the longest period for completing and obtaining a qualified share, the deadline for deciding and adopting a solution for prior consent to obtaining that share is laid down, the provisions on the imposition of administrative sanctions finally from a type of administrative sanction, the proposed abolition of administrative sanctions to credit institutions for breach of the safeguards of capital for the reasons that the European Central Bank and other supervisors continue to encourage banks to use their protective layers under the conditions of the pandemic of Sars-COV-2 virus. As in previous laws, other nomotechnical repairs have also been carried out. So, ultimately, this continues to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. And the last law... /The speaker away from the microphone./... The law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies. Therefore, it is this unique mechanism that allows all decisions related to the resolution issue at the level of the banking union to be centralised. The main news itself is the changes in the setting of a minimum requirement for capital and liabilities, the determination of the minimum nominal value of certain subordinate liabilities being sold to a small investor of 100,000 euros in kuna equivalent. It also shares the new resolution powers under which the CNB is a resolution body for credit institutions, the HANFA for investment firms, and the DAB will now be run by the National Renaissance Fund. Less or more, by establishing these resolution powers in a proposed way, it is simplified to exercise the powers envisaged... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19304	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Thank you for this exhaustive presentation, quite a difficult subject. My question is this, so what will be the fate of the Croatian Bank? Namely, I went to DAB's site to prepare for today's session and what I saw was that this tape is still going on today, that 6.7. we had offers for Croatia bank I guess the first, 9.10. there were four outside offers that were requested by outside investors for a deep analysis and at 23.10. that's the last piece of information I have so I ask you, so we have an extension to 30.10 and we don't know what's going on. So the very specific question is this, will Croatia's bank's fate be like the Adriatic Bank to attach it to the HPB or will it be fate in 93% of banks in the financial sector that it will fall into the hands of one of the foreigners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19305	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19306	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor. So, only briefly is the current State Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks, it runs the whole process as the sole owner of shares of the Croatian Bank and as you yourself said, it announced an invitation to interested investors to show interest in the purchase of 100% shares of the bank. The object of the planned transaction is actually the purchase of 4 million 746 thousand shares of the series A nominal value 100 kuna which represents actually 100%... capital. So, the procedure is under way. What is important is that for the time being, two serious bidders have been crystallised and, given the whole duration of the process and the sensitivity of the data, could no longer state as far as the amounts of offers on the table and on the further flows are concerned, but what I can say is that it is certainly going in that direction which is imagined and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19307	Second replica, Comrade Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19308	Thank you very much. Secretary, on a number of occasions, the Croatian people have remedied banks that have gone into the hands of mostly foreign owners who each year receive 4 billion kuna from fees and fees without being taxed in order to ask you for an answer that has been taken or that you are talking to the CNB for billions that have been laundered in ZABA. We know it's a threat to national security, that it's possible from terrorism and who knows what money is, I don't see any name and who did it and what happened, so if you can tell the public what's wrong with that? And the most crucial thing for our citizens. The banks are insolvent. Slovenia has brought moratorium on loans and interest in the covid crisis. Which is why only the governor of the natives and you at the Ministry of Finance keep your mouth shut. and not declared a moratorium on loans. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19309	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19310	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Bulj, the matter of the matter of these laws is not at stake. But I don't have that information about some billions. What I can tell you is the same as you, you are also available to the public from the media, that certain irregularities from this year in the bank in question have reached an agreement or agreement and a penalty has been set for this and continues to continue in the rule of law in accordance with any such situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19311	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19312	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the points we're discussing. Credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia should work in the interest of the Croatian people, of course, with their own interest. However, the CNB and the Ministry of Finance were not put aside by the citizens, but it was born because Croatian citizens, I repeat, through commissions and fees are paid annually 4 billion kunas, not interest, commissions and fees, which are about 5 hundred and are not taxed. The banks are in the Republic of Croatia. Slovenia has brought the first measure in this covid crisis to survive the economy and that citizens have the means to increase spending, to spend money and to buy it has given the first moratorium measure on loans and interest while the crisis is going on because the banks are soaring. Repeatedly, banks are solvent, and Croatian banks have been well-recovered several times by Croatian banks, which have been sold for much less money than they have been, which have been recovered. It is a very important matter of disrespecting the savings, credit institutions of the law of the Republic of Croatia, so we have passed the Law on the integrity of Raiffeisen's loan to the savings-credit cooperatives that are impossible to repay and many of our people are being taken away from a home, and we have voted unanimously in this assembly so-called. The law on the integrity of these loans lex Škibol, unanimously, so that all institutions are directed towards the non-implementation of the law. These people are literally thrown out of houses that have already returned a large portion of the money. Once again, I call upon everyone, mostly an unnatural bank, to finally stand in the protection of the people, not their protection. and banking interests. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19313	The apartment is approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. ANNIGHT IN 11.02 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19314	We can begin at 11:12 p.m., fellow Secretary of State. The next replica Mr. Boris Lalovec, not Davor Dretar pardon, is still above Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Here's a question about forced liquidation of credit institutions. By what criteria are payment orders formed and do you see them as a secretary of state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19316	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19317	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. So, the question of payment orders, if I get it right, right? So, in my view, there is no irregularity in that way as it is formed and as it is only envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19318	Thank you. Mr. Lalovac now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In order to actually round up the banking union, as you yourself said, it must function for EDIS or so on. The common deposit insurance system that already started in 2015, but we don't have any information as far as it came, so maybe I don't know if you have any communication with the European Commission and if you have any information to see when EDIS is going to work because this is all we're talking about now when we're actually forming EDIS we're going to get full effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19320	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19321	I thank the honourable representative. So, as far as the EDIS itself is concerned, there is no concrete shift at EU level, as regards the data itself on secured deposits, so we have a general obligation as regards this package by the end of the year, and we will meet our obligation and we will align and adapt even in some parts and before the other members. As far as the Deposit Insurance Fund itself is concerned, what's interesting is that after harmonisation comes, we'll have over five billion in that fund, which will be far more than 1.5%, and in general, as far as the secured deposits themselves are concerned, is at an adequate level of coverage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19322	Thank you. Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here I would like to point out once again that exactly this harmonisation leads to the reduction of the risks for citizens' depositors and that it is important to say in any case that any future failure of any bank charges from what banks pay, so not from the state budget, not from citizens' taxes, but from the budgets, but exclusively from those deposit insurance funds that actually bear credit institutions with their insurance fund payments, either basic, or any additional.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19324	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19325	I thank the distinguished representative Peric. Therefore, it is also prescribed by the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms of several instruments other than the sale of the transitional institution of the separation of assets and a certain additional instrument of internal recovery of so-called ‘internal’. Ball and.. We had a 10-year-old less or more bail out when the state was saving, but now this fund is prescribed and a certain regulatory requirement that ensures that the bank has coverage in that fund itself that pays to execute that internal recovery just so that it doesn't come to swear the taxpayers' money being used for the recovery or rescue of any bank and that is one of the most important maybe novelties that we bring into this, one of these proposals amending and supplementing these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19326	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19327	Thank you. I am, therefore, particularly interested in what reason did it not go to the regulation of the issue of the purchase of bank placements in the Credit Institutions Act, in a way that actually regulates the practice of selling debt resulting from consumer lending because we know that one of the biggest problems of our citizens except over-indebtedness and the fact that, in a large number of cases when the purchase of plasmas by the Banks is a violation of the rights of citizens, but also of the treatment that is actually a kind of gray zone because there is no regulation and there is no control over the action of the Agency for the collection of claims and that citizens are very often, although it is prescribed that they are not allowed, put in a difficult position than they were with a private believer, so please explain to us for what reason the government did not access to the regulation of this institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19328	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19329	I would like to thank you for the question of the distinguished representative Bencic. Therefore, the concession and sale of claims are regulated primarily as a roof law, the Law on Mandatory Relations, then by this Law on Credit Institutions, but also by the decision to purchase the payments of credit institutions made by the CNB. On this occasion, what is contained here, that a credit institution is obliged to ensure, by law, that consumers whose placements are the subject of the contract do not come to the acquirer or third party to whom the acquirer has transferred their placements to a more unfavourable position based on consumer protection compared to the position they had. So that's strictly what it says. As regards the follow-up, they are registered as companies and not as financial institutions. So, in order for them to fall under this regulation at all, they would have to be registered as financial institutions, and this is the only thing that really refers to the Consumer Protection Act. to regulate it better. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19330	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Does anyone from the clubs who brought up the debate, who had a debate about the law taken? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and Mr. Zvonimir Troscott will perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19331	Dear Vice-President HS, respected MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for this exhaustive presentation of these topics, which may appear to be dry and formally legal, as well as good items to be supported. However, I would take this debate today into a contextual form which, in fact, is why we vote it this way, and I can even say it by emergency procedures, and of course, the answer is to enter the Eurozone. The MOST Club has no problem taking over the commitment to join the Eurozone for the reason we signed it with the Lisbon Agreement. The big question that's going on here, is this the moment that we're supposed to be entering the Eurozone? So that's the context in which I put today's debate. And I would like to explain today through two main points. So one question is national security, and another question, and that, and I'm going to do it through a question that I've asked our secretary of state, so it's a lack of vision or a lack of strategy, at least it's not clear what I want to do with certain moves. Well, let's get it straight. As far as national security is concerned, we were witnesses in the 3rd month of 2020. that there was a big affair about money laundering at Zagreb Bank. We discussed this issue here in the assembly, and we asked the governor, and then he couldn't tell us for the reason that certain processes were still under question. However, what the Croatian public wants to know is what happened now with the president of the administration, is there, is there any personal responsibility of the president himself, so if there is any way to prevent him from doing any further management work? What happened to the director of the compliment that is responsible for the internal controlling system or the control system in that bank itself, and the biggest question is what actually happened here, what is behind this affair? Is there drug laundering through Zagreb Bank, whether money from waste may be laundered through Zagreb Bank, whether money from the sale of weapons may be laundered through Zagreb Bank, or whether certain terrorist operations may be financed? So, we don't know that, we just know that from certain CNB reports, it's about money laundering of Italian typeology. So the question arises that, who are these Italians, and I have nothing against the Italian national minority, So what happened here and who are you, those people? [[We didn't even think about it.]] But I must say, so who are these persons who have therefore carried out these illegal acts, and the people must know it. [[We didn't even think about it.]] If we are, then it is not only the Zagreb Bank but it is also the CNB issue, and this is the issue and supervision of the European Central Bank now, so if such control mechanisms are in the largest bank that has the most developed internal control system, at least from, from the market and from experience, the question is what happens in those smaller banks? And here, so we can discuss some kind of bending of the law that at the end of the day and it comes down to the picture that we are now buzzing the wall here, and we may potentially be based on very fragile bases and that's something that we need to consider the ones that are here in this legislative body. The question is why has the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering not responded in time, why has the CNB not responded in time and why has the Zagreb Bank not responded in time? Why did I say it was a national problem, so what's behind it? So recently we were on the ground of colleagues Miletic and I in Prezida and Gorski Kotar and I saw a colleague Miletic fighting for our Croats, for example in Gorski Kotar there in Prezida, which unfortunately became all over the paperwork, a potential disposal of Italian waste and medical waste. So, all those things that were related to covid by hospitals are by means of certain companies in Istria and later at the local level in Gorski kotar tried to throw out in the areas of Gorski kotar which should be the lungs of Croatia, so this is a national now problem. So that's where I did a little digression where the financial system was, but this environmental system was also a big question. And now I'm putting it here to raise awareness of everyone who's a danger to such shops. Why did I ask the secretary of state about the Croatian Bank? It is now the other issue and one lack of strategy by the ruling because we do not know what they are trying to achieve. So, there are two scenarios that we see about the Croatian Bank and that's what I asked the question, it's one thing for foreigners to come and buy a Croatian bank, so we're going to have a situation where that percentage of foreign ownership in the financial sector in Croatia will increase further, is that what we want and is it really our strategy, is this put into the National Strategy 2030, or is it two, so is Croatia's fate of the Adriatic Bank and we'll have the situation as well as where the Adriatic Bank joined the HPB? And it is a possible scenario, not bad because it does not burden what Mrs Grozdanic said does not burden the budget, but the question is whether it is our bank management strategy or generally with public enterprises. This debate would now spread a little bit of this example, in fact, the Croata bank is very symptomatic of me because certain government models what they do see and in the sector that are also of national expression and therefore I say that there is no national strategy, at least it is not visible. For example, INA, if we look to the prime minister to say that shares of INA will be bought, and we don't know what the scenario is, on the other hand, we get the same comment as the lady said here, that the budget of the Republic of Croatia will not be touched in that transaction. And what does that mean? So that means only two scenarios or an INA buys a stranger, before the Russian Rosnef or the INA we're going to attach to some energy giant who's in the financial transaction of the HPB? Then what does that mean? What could be an energy company that could take over a transaction like INA? The only solution to this is HEP. And then what do we get? A conglomerate of potential corruption. Now, why did I say that was unclear? So it is not clear whether we from public companies or state property will do this by rounding them up with public enterprises that burden potential corruption or by giving them private property to be bought by foreigners. But then the question arises, what is the strategic purpose? For example, if it is Rosnef for the INA, so the Russians have already bought good Agrokor and if they buy INA, then that means certain stations in Slavonia, which means that we increase the Russian interest. It's not exclusive, but we in the geostrategic, economic strategy don't see it, I'm not reading it from the national strategy until 2030. And now to conclude, unless it is a clear national strategy in 2030, unless the budget as a strategic document follows a national strategy, we are not clear what is going to happen to public enterprises, for example, those that are state-owned, are they going to be sold to larger Croatian companies or are we going to sell them to foreigners? If the basic settings of the financial system are not well set for us because we have become a money launderer, where one financial power centre is clearly in Croatian banks, the other in the official state treasury, which is Slovenska 9, so if these things are not set up for us, the human or Croatian citizen is asking the question, and then why are we falling into this Eurozone when we haven't resolved the basic settings of things, and the only real contextual reason why we are stamping and passing these laws that are exhaustively present here and there are good items, is just an accelerated preparation for the Eurozone for which we are not prepared? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19332	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19333	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the Mosta club, Croatian sovereigns are explicitly against the euro and now and always, as long as it does not bring economic stability or prosperity to Croatian citizens. And we believe that the Kuna, the Kuna and the dam is the sovereignty of our state, so that we are clear and different here. EOS Matrix B2 Capital, Prima group-Prima Solvent, Prima Colect, APS Croatia, Seva Economi, Cordiyline, Credit Express, OutUS Investments, Coface, Kredyt Incaso etc. There's a lot of these agencies. I don't suppose anyone in the Parliament had the misfortune to call him on the phone and introduce himself to him as one of these agencies. But many in Croatia, unfortunately, know who he is. EOS Matrix. And they're terrified when on the phone, they see an unknown number or a known number on their phone, so a lady calls them and says, "Good afternoon, I'm calling from EOS Matrix because of your debt sold to me by the xy bank," and then it happens that some debt from, I don't know, 1000 EUR. The bank sells here B2 to the capital, for example. for 300 EUR, and then B2 Capital draws from that citizen not EUR 1000 but also more than EUR 1000 because it is free interest and it is ultimately huge and huge sums. But we don't care because they don't call us on the phone, right, but a lot of citizens are calling. And then we're talking about selling plasma, there's not much to talk about, there's no change, there's still going to be a sale, there's going to be loans, unfavourable loans for banking institutions, and we're not changing state secretaries here, right? We'll talk about the deposit, about the side effects, and we won't talk about what's bothering the little Croatian man. And we legalized the robbery of a Croatian man, we legalized it. This is a legal robbery for someone to sell your debt to anyone who knows who, in what way, and to end up living off that billing debt by making a debt, forcing fear to a small Croatian man who is increasingly poorer and poorer. You didn't remember? I will repeat again, EOS Matrix, B2 Capital, Prima Solvent, Prima Colect, APS Croatia, Seva Economi, Cordyline, Credit Express, Autus Investments, Coface, Kredyt Inkaso. Don't make her call someone a lady with a sweet voice and introduce herself as an employee, an employee of these companies. Dear Secretary of State Curaj, and I was just wondering where you are, you've been through a meeting here in the council's benches, you're a member of the HNS, the HNS has one member of the Stromar, but there are many like you, you've had a good time again, that HNS prospers again, the HEP is still in your panjamas, come on school you let go, no more colleague Divjak, but you're here, here I'm glad you've gotten along. And here, since we're talking about credit institutions, about banks, you'd mention one thing we forget about the same thing. We forget the privatisation of Croatian banks, forget that we gave Croatian banks, gave to foreigners for one year's profit, for one year's profit. And now these same foreign-owned banks are again foreign-owned, because these are foreign-owned companies that I listed, selling debts, and says one piece of information that this debt was sold for about 20 Peljega bridges, for about 20 Peljega bridges. If the Peljeski bridge, I think 2 billion euros is approximately, so that would be about 40 billion euros at this point being drawn from the Croatian state. So, the money directly gets this company out of the Croatian state and goes who knows where. But you know why? Because the government of Andrej Plenkovic has made it possible, Secretary of State, because you've been making it possible for 5 years. People, let's change this, let's finally be sovereign. As for the EUR, Croatian sovereigns will cause you a very big problem, just wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19334	Now Mr. Boris Lalovec will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here are the other readings today of the 4 laws that are united and which are actually one overtures as it is here and must be adopted in order for Croatia to be able to join the Eurozone, so that Croatia could be a full member of the European Monetary Union. And as always there is a certain membership in some institutions on the one hand, it causes fear, and on the other hand, given the situation and in which Croatia has started to actually bring many benefits. And in fact, in these four laws, there are a lot of good things that will actually be implemented and ensured the unity of the banking system, and as we know that over 90% of the banks are owned by foreign banks and that there are little that we can change, and now that we're changing something then it's good that we change some of these laws and that we coordinate and that actually these financial institutions that operate in Croatia actually operate on the principles of how they operate in their countries of origin, is that right? We wouldn't have had a Swiss franc, neither do we today, nor do these cases of debt reselling actually happen to these agencies as they operate in Germany, Austria, in other countries if they do business in Croatia as well. And that is why it is also good to have a balance or evening of legal regulations that, in fact, these financial institutions do the same business, both in the countries of origin and in the Republic of Croatia, and that is a good thing, and that is what we welcome and that is why we will vote for these laws. When we talk about the deposit insurance system already before, there was talk that up to 100,000, in fact, 100,000 EUR was secured and that it was good, we had up to 300,000 kuna, in 2013, we changed it up to 750,000 kuna insurance per deposit of every citizen in, whether or not it was secured savings that it was on savings, given that it was on the citizens' current account, meaning up to 100,000 euros, and that it was actually that money if there were some problems, it would be filled again from banking sources, which is through this trust that was managed by the DAB that actually changed the name today and that the amount was somewhere around 2.5% of the amount secured, which is now around, slightly more than five billion kuna and where Croatia filled that amount of the amounts secured and in the first subsequent crisis money was already secured. Is money you can collect in two ways, you can collect ex ante, ex post means you can collect it in advance or only when a certain harmful event occurs. And the RH seems to me to have chosen a wiser method, which is a method to collect at times when it goes well and then that money is collected and that money is stored on accounts in the CNB, so it's nowhere else but in the CNB it's kept that money. And what is important through these amendments to the law somewhere in 2022, 2023, is that if there is any harmful event for the financial industry, or for itself it saves that that money will be paid to them within seven days, these laws will be passed, and that is what is good for the Croatian savings industry, if we know that we live in places, unfortunately we have painful experiences which we younger remember that citizens cannot come to their deposits, that they have to wait for some bankruptcy of a financial institution that lasts 15, 20, 30 years, and now this law says that it must end within three years, etc., etc. We all think it's kind of simple that it should have, but it's now Croatia's practice as an equal member of the EU and that's why it's good. I wish we had this practice in the 1990s, when we started the state, when the financial system was being built, when it wasn't easy to have no experience, no money, no overall knowledge, when these disturbances on the financial market damaged the Croatian savings and that's why it's good, and that's why it should be said that this is good because we finally have European standards in Croatia in the insurance of savings stakes because we know that the biggest losses and declines of Croatian citizens' standards happen when they lose their savings and that it is then and then for years and generations can't finally be compensated. But we just always think it's kind of normal as if we've never lived through anything in these places. And this is what we think today is some sort of alignment. These are good steps for Croatia and should therefore be commended. It is especially good when it occurs if a harmful event occurs, for example. This is where we mentioned Italy, Austria, why it is good if a certain adverse event happens there cannot happen only in that institution in Austria or that money can be withdrawn from Croatia in order to resuscitate the financial institution in Austria, which has been known to happen. And then create the domino effect of savings damage in Croatia. These legal solutions say that a single recovery must be done and that simple resolution of banks in one country cannot cause harm to other savings and thus helps and ensures, and we know that the financial system is so secure, ensuring the safety of the savings and if such a certain adverse event occurs. As we said, we certainly support the process of liquidating financial institutions and ensuring that very quickly, if we go to the European Monetary Union and we think that it is still a matter of various criticisms, and now it has proved that in this crisis Croatia, let's be honest, could not endure, could not withstand the covid crisis that we are not members of the EU, and I will repeat it more times, we could not, we have no money from my people. We spent within six months 30 billion kuna on lockdown, 30 billion such a blow as much as that Minister Maric is trying to say that everything under control is a huge blow. Here we are not a member of the EU for me, for us, for God's sake. Now we think that, so you see how we think that today, so there's 30 billion kuna, that's huge money, that's the money that we're going to have to pay back in the future. And here we don't have the help of any disunity at EU level that we've had speculation with our bonds who started to speculate with the bonds that our interest rate had gone, that our courses had gone beyond what would have happened to us. Today as an equal member of the EU, we think that it is normal, that we are normal not to go to the course, not to slip the course, that we are provided with deposits, that we can finance entrepreneurs, that we can shut down the economy, today it is so normal for us, but that is the standard set by the EU, that is the EU standard, that is not the standard of other countries. And we're playing the Champions League today, like it's normal for us to play with the best clubs in Germany every day, but it just wasn't in the places where we are. And because of this, such things as a small country that is very risk-sensitive, financial risks should be welcomed and it should be said that in the end that we are not today an EU member you know who we would negotiate with? With the IMF, and the IMF would say pension cuts, cut this, cut this. These are actually facts because two, three times he was in Croatia's IMF when we were not members of the EU. And therefore some things and some processes that the government supports by entering the European course mechanism, the rehabilitation mechanism, the eu funds where concrete things have the wallet of Croatian savings, Croatian citizens should be welcomed. These are bigger benefits for the Croatian economy than we are. We have neighboring countries very close to us, you know how they negotiate? They only negotiate with the IMF, so here's our neighboring country. Any country that negotiates with such institutions is shaking. And that's why these laws, however skeptical they are, bring long-term benefits and shocks like 30 billion kunas, and we don't know what January will be, we don't know what February will be, we don't know how it's going to be, you don't have a relationship with government bonds, you don't have a savings problem, we don't have a pension problem, we don't have a payout problem. You just think it's simple that it's simple in the whole system to ensure everything and that everything happens like nothing happened. And for this reason, such institutions and this well-being of Croatia have now proved for the first time as far as I can tell, and the disunity has proved good for Croatia, and therefore the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19336	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Begonja will hold a position on this proposal for the law of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19337	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. After the introduction of the motionor and today's colleague here, and especially now, what I planned to say to Lalovca would actually be a kind of repetition, and perhaps not as professionally explained as they said. However, in the introduction, the HDZ Club will support this four-law package that regulates the banking system, primarily its security as well as the trust of citizens, businessmen and entrepreneurs. When we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, which was originally adopted in 2013, but on several occasions there have been harmonisations with EU legal standards so far, it should be pointed out that this law is working further on regulatory harmonisation regarding the reform of the banking system in order to preserve its resilience to crisis conditions, to strengthen the ability of banks to endure possible shocks. In relation to the first-reading draft law, some differences have been made by the proposings in order to comply with the decision-making procedures within the single supervisory mechanism in which both the CNB or the European Central Bank take part, certain proposals of the Legislative Committee have also been adopted. Therefore, which makes part of the package of measures to reduce the risk of entrepreneurs, citizens and other entities seek to bring national legislation into line with the EU acquis on the one hand, but further reform of the banking system within the EU as a whole is continuing with the aim of maintaining the resilience of this system to further strengthening banks in relation to possible crisis conditions, crisis shocks that are today caused by the pandemic around the world at this time. What should be highlighted is that this package of laws should be adopted by the end of December of this year in the legal norms of national legislation. The objective of these laws is to better preserve financial stability through the application of measures to improve the creditworthiness of banks, as well as to reduce the burden on smaller banks and improve bank capacity for financing small and medium-sized enterprises and infrastructure projects. By establishing a close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank as a state, we have become both a member and a participant in a single recovery mechanism. These laws specify the activities that supervisory authorities take under their powers. In this connection, the CNB assumes the power to resuscitate credit institutions and the HANFA will assume the power to resuscitate investment companies. Also, the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation is becoming a body run by the National Renaissance Fund, and it is changing its name now. It manages the Deposit Insurance Fund and is authorised to implement bankruptcy and liquidation. It is important to note that, at the same time as the decision to establish a close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the Croatian Republic of Croatia on the basis of its request and after having successfully implemented the measures prescribed for it, it also entered into the European Course Mechanism 2. In the context of this legal norm, it is important to state that the ECB also completed a comprehensive assessment of five Croatian banks in early June, an assessment process consisted of a review of the quality of assets and stress-resistant testing, in accordance with the ECB’s methodology and estimated that none of these five banks covered no capital gaps because their regular capital ratios were more than the minimum rates used in terms of asset quality and stress-resistant testing. Since 1 October, the ECB has become directly responsible for the supervision of major credit institutions, so of 20 banks and 3 savings banks directly oversees 8 credit institutions with Zagrebačka banka, Privredna baba, Erste banka, Raiffeisen banka, Sber banka and Adikko banka there are two PBZ savings banks and Raiffeisen residential savings banka. It is also important to note that, with the supervision of those credit institutions, a special emphasis is being placed on monitoring the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which has been largely supervised by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and from now on, the National Bank will. The proposal for this law also introduces a new way of calculating and monitoring the interest risk arising from transactions conducted in a book of non-traded positions, and introduces a supervisory test not only on one interest shock, but on six different pre-defined shocks. When we talk about the Deposit Insurance System Act, we take over this legislation in our legislative order and the 2014 directive. on deposit insurance systems. The adoption of this Directive improves the position of the depositor, or their access to the collateral, of rules and procedures relating to the establishment, operation, management and financing of the deposit insurance system in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the key task defined by this law is to secure deposits or protect depositors from the consequences of the security case. It is indicated here that the deposit insurance system will be financed exclusively on the burden of credit institutions members of the deposit insurance system, not the burden of taxpayers, and for this purpose, funds such as the fine ex Sante collect funds from the Deposit Insurance Fund consisting of two parts of the underlying insurance fund and an additional deposit insurance fund which has its multiplicitic role since the completion of the underlying Deposit Insurance Fund, then support for the collection of ex post premiums and support for the financing of the recovery of credit institutions and for the financing of forced liquidation of credit institutions. As regards the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, it has also been said that this law further contributes to and continues to reform the banking system, either at national level, but also at EU level with regard to the directives that prescribe it. The fact of the existence of several rehabilitation bodies and the situation stemming from close cooperation of the CNB with the ECB where the Republic of Croatia became a member and judge of a single recovery mechanism where it was arranged for the CNB, as I have already said, to take power over the resolution of credit institutions, to HANFA control investment companies. And finally, the Law on Forced Liquidation of Credit Institutions, we know that this law, which first appears in our legislation, takes over the legal property of the EU and, above all, Directive 24/2001, which speaks about the restructuring and liquidation of credit institutions, then Directive 59, which speaks about the establishment of a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and the last Directive 2399/2017 as regards the ranking of unsecured debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. It is undeniable that the failure of any credit institution has negative consequences on all entities that have had business and business relations with that credit institution and, as has already been said if we have or if there are entities that have more than 100,000 euros of funds in that credit institution, they have mostly lost more of that amount in the bankruptcy and liquidation process which lasted 10 to 15 years in general and which have been implemented in accordance with the applicable bankruptcy law. What is before us today is this law that speaks, which for the first time, as I have said, appears and speaks of a reduction in the duration of the bankruptcy process, talks about the controlled exit of a credit institution from the market all in order to reduce the risk and spill negative effects on the rest of the financial market as well as the rapid and effective total settlement of creditors of a credit institution in forced liquidation. What is prescribed by this legal norm, which is that it has to be implemented within three years. The law and jurisdiction of the CNB shall be governed by the law and the jurisdiction of the CNB to propose the initiation of the forced liquidation procedure of credit institutions in conditions where it is established that a credit institution is leading to its collapse and the arrangements for forced liquidation with the agreement of the newly established Croatian Insurance Agency. Here's a little time left, a final HDZ club like I said will support the proposal of this package of laws. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19338	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Davor Dretar will speak for the club and on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19339	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. There has been a banking system in Croatia since the very beginning of our independent state has always been the scene of social poisoning and, of course, sometimes a serious crisis. Since the creation of the Croatian state, of course, we have conveyed the problems of saving the Bank of Ljubljana for decades, and serious bank affairs have started with the establishment of Croatian banks and we all remember the case of Kaptol Bank, Credo Banka, Glamina Banka, in which many Croatian savings are, or as the depositors are now said, left without their life savings. But we're not going back in time now. In any case, the Homeland Movement will support this whole package that we are talking about here today in a united debate because it is absolutely clear that it is good and quality compliance with EU regulations. We are also pleased to say to our voters that their savings are secured, but of course let us remind ourselves once again of one of the big questions, and that is how much our citizens in our banks have money if we have recently seen worrying about the fact that 70% of the bank deposits in Croatia are in the hands of barely 15% of the population. So an obvious trend that unfortunately happens throughout the world. The richer they are, the richer they are, the richer they are, the richer they are, of course, the poorer they are. But we're not going to talk about it, so I'm going to talk for a moment just to ask one serious question to the Honorable Secretary of State, so maybe this is how you explain it to me like this and as a representative's sweat a little bit better than he explained it to me through the answer to my line. So the failure of one bank is a very unpleasant experience, we can say so, especially for those who have money in that bank, but not only for them, but of course for the entire financial system of one state. Especially if the bank is bigger, the greater the natural disturbance on the banking and financial system, the more serious it is. Rescue of credit institutions or people's banks has always been a special discipline in us, from which citizens and other small fish mostly pulled out the thicker end of the beating, and some fallen managers activated their gold parachutes and left home with millions of severances, waiting, of course, when someone would put them back in the steering position from which they would do the same or even more damage. But again, let me say, let's look at everything positive, so I would just end up reminding you of some of the amendments to this law or some of the items, primarily those that regulate the payment order in case of forced liquidation of a credit institution. In the first line of payments are the state and privileged creditors, of course, there are salaries of workers who have failed the bank, which is perfectly normal for people who worked there to pay for their work, there are claims of the state budget which is absolutely normal. The state is writing the law, of course they'll make sure everything they need to get gets it. We don't see any problems here, but let me ask you, there are severances and up to the amount prescribed by the collective agreement. There seems to me to be a misunderstanding here, we understand that in the event that a bank, a credit institution, people fail to go to the stock market or as they already do, they lose their jobs and, of course, have the right to adequate severance that they have regulated by some contract, most often of course by some kind of border collective contract. But let me ask again, what happens to administrations or people sitting on the boards of these banks, with the directors of these banks, with people who have managed their own management or poor management of the bank and who have brought forced liquidation into a situation? Do they have, or how does the law regulate the right to their severances here? Because, of course, a very simple moral question arises, is there a right for some, or a set of people, who, by their poor business, have brought a credit institution to ruin, do they have the right to some kind of money? If they're allowed to get a single kuna, and I'm assuming that in the case of bank managers, it's the gold parachutes that weigh several hundred thousand if not millions of kunas. There, the Homeland Movement will support this whole package that we are having a united discussion, but ask the respected secretary of state to give me an answer to this, so how is the severance of the boards of directors or members of the bank management that have entered the forced liquidation process regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19340	Thank you, Mr. Dretar. It is now up to Mrs Sandra Bencic to represent her position on this proposal for the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19341	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. But when it was the first reading of the Credit Institutions Act, I was talking about the need to sort of regulate the purchase of plasma banks when these plasmas come from consumer lending, specifically about the sale of debt to our citizens who owe to banks, and on the basis of credit to the demand paying agencies. By law, it is a matter as the secretary of state has said resolved, but not by amending and supplementing the law. For this reason, we are not able to put amendments and improve the issue of regulation on the purchase of such placements, but what we are going to do is to minimally give amendments to those infringements where certain obligations can possibly be added to banks in terms of what needs to be regulated and what is necessary to put a contract on the purchase of plasma, and in order to really achieve this right that the State Secretary spoke of, which is that the consumer should not come into a worse position than he was with the primary believer. But when they answered me and told me that the bank couldn't sell the placement if the position got worse, which is the key question, who controls it? You said the demand agencies are companies, as such do not fall under the Credit Institutions Act in terms of not financial institutions and are not under the supervision of the CNB, but under whose supervision are they? In what way can any citizen to whom the debt has been sold to the requesting agency seek protection of his rights and can confirm that there has been a violation of his rights in relation to the primary believer? If the bank is not allowed to sell a placement in such a way that the debtor will be in a more unfavourable position, I wonder what is the concrete process of proving it, what is the penalty for the bank that does it anyway and what is the responsibility of the claiming agency and does this consumer have the right to compensation and how it is determined and is the burden of proof on it? These are the questions we need to settle. Those questions are completely messy. Now I'm going to read you something that's actually a confession from a citizen who worked at a law enforcement agency. He says, “The hardest thing for me was with people whose debts went into obsolescence, and we don’t have to mention it even though we knew it, but we talked them into making at least a small deposit, at least 50 kunas, because a man who doesn’t know that his debt is out of date doesn’t get called into obsolescence, makes a small payment and thus admits the entire debt. ” Also, of course, the price at which the agencies buy out debts from banks ranges between 20 and 30% of the value of the debt of course the entire debt, along with interest and expenses. But our citizen's debtor doesn't know what price they bought because it's a business secret. So we're protecting the corporate secret agency to collect claims, but we're not protecting the right of citizens to know who they owe them and how much they owe them, and for how much debt they're sold for, we're not protecting them, we don't care because they're some agencies, they're companies we can't control. When I say they don't know who they owe, when the agency buys from a credit institution they can sell it 10 times, 15 times to the next agency, the next, the next, the next, the next, the next. We've been getting in these two months a crowd of calls from citizens who tell us people we no longer know who we owe because one week I'm being called by one agency another week by someone from Luxembourg, three weeks from what I don't know, so we're putting citizens in a position not to know how much and who they owe them. The worst part of the story, when is the debt paid to the agency to collect claims that are the legal consequences of it? Is it, for example, if the citizen was already in the executive procedure because of the debt and if it is blocked whether the claims agency reports to the FINA that the debt has been paid? Does he answer, does he have that obligation? The mass of citizens had months of blocked accounts after they paid off their debts, and we give the demand agencies the opportunity to enter the legal position of the credit institution to which the debt was sold, so also in terms of the exercise and the rights arising from the executive procedure. But they don't have obligations. In particular, people are particularly threatened by our older citizens, fellow citizens who do not know very often or that debt has been sold to them, nor what it means, nor what their rights are, do not know what is obsolete. Debt payments to the claims agency, they think they're still in debt, so they pay off the FINAs or someone else because they don't know what debt they owe or who their believer is. So we put our citizens in that position. And we now had a chance through the Law on Credit Institutions to solve this issue, we could have solved the question, do we really want the Agency to collect claims which is a profit total amount out of Croatia, and here I also mentioned to you EOS Matrix only last year 70 million kuna was exported to Germany. Do we really not want to limit them to what the maximum extra profit they want to have is? We don't want to, for example. Prescribe that the debt price they can charge is 100% of what they paid for the debt, so if they paid 20% they would charge 40% of the debt. No, we allow them to be 100%. And the argument for what I'm constantly hearing here is it's property, it's property, then credit institution, but also the demand agency can do with it whatever they want because it's their property. So tell me, since when is property absolutely right? Is property absolutely right? It's not. Are they subject to restrictions? It's going down. Are the rights and freedoms of others one of the limitations to which they are subject? Yeah. And why don't we just use that to regulate the question of the claim collection agencies and what is the maximum extra profit that we're going to give them, or how much freedom to give to the citizen's husband? I won't even get into it. So, we're going to make amendments to that part, and I know that they're probably not going to be accepted for even formal reasons because it's about violations, and the violations are about something that isn't in the legal part of the provisions itself, but it's our desperate attempt to explain to you that it's important to regulate this issue and that it's the Law on Credit Institutions that is the place because it regulates the question of purchasing plasmas. What is still bothering us is that the legal consequences of the Franak ruling are not consistent and fully incorporated into the text of the law, especially in this section concerning the infringement provisions. If we have the Franak case, if we've got final decisions, then now is the time to, of course, except for the Consumer Credit Act, solve it with the Credit Institutions Act. And I'm gonna end up with one more thing. For my unknown reason, most in this House are very often placed when it comes to the financial sector as if it had no right or as if there was no possibility of regulation, as if it had no right to regulation. Evidence of this is the fact that our government has accepted participation in arbitration proceedings that the banks have initiated against the Republic of Croatia in the International Court of Arbitration in Washington because of the Frank case. Based on what? based on the bilateral agreements we have with the countries where these banks are based, these countries are EU Member States. The European Court of Justice has already ruled in 2018 that it is in charge of issues between Member States and that bilateral agreements are not applicable, although bilateral agreements will be put into effect. We knew that in 2018, the issue of jurisdiction in the Washington court was now being resolved for some cases being resolved right now. Why aren't we objecting to incompetence? Why don't we withdraw from arbitration proceedings and leave it to the European Court of Justice to solve this case, and we know that it will be resolved in our favour because we have the right to regulate people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19342	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic to speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19343	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. I'll be very brief. So, as far as all the matter that this law regulates is concerned, it is not really controversial to introduce some useful and good newspapers. However, what I've been pointing at all the time, and I think this HS is running less and less accounts about it is the system as a whole, especially in part of the supervision and control of different national authorities. So that's what I'd point to. 28th to talk about the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. Article 1 states that this is "a specialised non-profit financial institution which has the property of a legal person with the rights and obligations laid down by this law and other laws governing the work of agencies and the statute of the Agency". Furthermore, in Article 4, it is said "that, when achieving its objectives and in carrying out its tasks, the agencies are independent and independent". Well, then later on in art. which speaks of the authorities of that agency, says that "the agencies are the Supervisory Board and Director" under Article. 36. By art. 37. "All members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, where one member of the Supervisory Board may propose credit institutions." Furthermore, it appears in section 4. "that members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a period of four years and may be re-appointed, the work of the Supervisory Board shall be regulated by the Regulation on the work that the Supervisory Board itself adopts." I speak from experience, so when we have a function elected to the mandate, when we have a function that has the powers of the Supervisory Board, everything points out that there should be words about those whom the Government appoints as officials. Perhaps this could and should be taken under the existing Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but it is not for the worse for us to be decoded, precise and clear in these things. It is known, for example, that some other financial institutions such as FINA fully fall outside this form of control, so FINA and their governing bodies are not covered by the work and competence of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, I consider this a major problem and a major failure. I wouldn't want to see anything like this happen to unsettled legal norms compared to this agency. And also since the Supervisory Board elects the Director under Article. Thus, “the Director of the Agency shall appoint the Supervisory Board also for a period of four years to which it may be re-appointed” and in Article 5, it is said that “the Director must not be a politically active person”. The fact that it is not allowed to have a party card does not mean that it is not a function which is considered to be in charge in respect of compliance with the obligations of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And I would like in this section if nothing for long through future changes and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest as a parent law is explicitly covered by the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency and its bodies, so both the Director and members of the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19344	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mrs Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19345	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Well, here I am, in these five minutes, going to try to look back as quickly as possible at all that is said and pointed out exactly what I said in my replica, which is that with these amendments and additions to the laws of these four laws, primarily the Law on deposit insurance and the liquidation of credit institutions and on credit institutions is harmonised in a way that exactly the package of measures that they include reduces the risk of citizens themselves, but also the state budget in this case when some of these scenarios happen. This is precisely the goal of strengthening the banking sector in the sense that banks face possible shocks with regard to the capacity to cover losses and capitalisation. What's important is to say that just by entering the single rehabilitation mechanism, the Republic of Croatia has allowed the CNB to take over the power to execute a resolution of credit institutions that is currently working for the CNB and that the HANFA has authority over investment companies. This is what you saw and what the secretary of state has pointed out and is actually changing and the relationship between the state agency so far for the resolution of banks where it now has other powers or changes and in a formal sense becomes a different name for the agency that will be the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency. It is very important that what I have said is that in this way the risks are passed on to banks and thus to the deposit insurance system to form both the basic insurance fund and the additional insurance fund and thus the banks, which by their contribution, enable the payment of the secured savings. I would like to point out once again that the same thing is mentioned here as Croatia's bank and everything else, that so far care has just been run by the State Agency for Rehabilitation of Banks that has launched and sold, and so far as we know, some four offers have been made. Croatia's bank has 0.46% share in the Croatian market and it is certainly the desire and state agencies to achieve a better price and make a total of over 4.7 million shares of equivalent of 100 kunas to sell as best and as high-quality an investor as possible. I would like to point out once again that it is all a proposal of what is happening in our financial and otherwise sector in this way we contribute to one security, here is the end of the IMF's programme in Croatia which has just expressed a very positive opinion towards our system which, as you know, has been controlled by the CNB and the Ministry of Finance and just all the measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just so far proved to be evaluated by such an international institution very high-quality, even predicting the future growth of our GDP not 5% but 6% which encourages us in this way that all these measures that are being taken and only harmonisation and all of this which seems very high quality, and I hope that with all of these achievements achieved so far have achieved quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19346	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19347	Thank you very much. I asked through the replica, and I'm going to repeat again when it comes to these legal changes on credit institutions how it's possible that banks that are laundering illegal money in the amount of $1.8 billion that no one has agreed. The secretary told me that something had been arranged for each other, not negotiated that some punishment had been passed, I don't know what he said about it. I'm interested in here and we're all here. What's all this money? Is that money possibly from terrorism washed? They may have been washed up when I don't know why, so it would be good to say what names they're talking about, that would have to be known by the MPs and the Croatian public if the laundering of that amount of money was catastrophic, and suddenly there was silence. Credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia banks have profits like I said four billion kuna per year, not interest on certain services, naked four billion kuna on fees, fees that are not taxed, which means that banks are solvable and that the tribal is no matter what the secretary of state says is not about the subject, but is a very important topic at this point are covid measures and there are Croatian banks that have not participated in anything. So once again, the moratorium on loans and interest was the first decision in Slovenia, not so far away that the economy would survive and that any such business in Slovenia could be held in the field of covid crisis, I am talking about measures. As for national security as I said money laundering, we don't know where it came from, I think this is also for the National Security and Internal Policy Committee, because we don't get answers, which is why it's laundered, where's that money that's being laundered in the ZABA and if there's any more. And as for the very rehabilitations of Croatian peoples, he rescheduled those banks that he paid for billions that went into foreign property that milk money from Croatian sister banks to their home banks in other countries and probably they resuscitate and their banks in these countries, and here the money that is the huge profit of banks in the Republic of Croatia is simply the poorer people, and the richer they are getting richer and not only the state as a community but all together. Or CNB i.e. The governor who... I saw that a medium published... at the same time along with the Croatian government gives the running disputes in Washington to international arbitration against our citizens in essence, the business legal and physical persons of our citizens where the Governor Vujčić is mainly leading Croatia, and he is turning into an unnatural bank where he basically suits banks in the case of the Swiss franc. It's in the media now, but I've been doing it all along and I've been repeating that it's simply a blow to the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia and our citizens. And that's what we're going to talk about when we're talking about this law that is harmonising with EU directives is I don't know what it is, but at this point, the only thing we have is empty pockets of Croatian citizens who are poor. I repeat, four million kunas a year, and we would have to find this element to tax these four billion kunas, and we still have nothing left to do, we had a law on credit default, international loans, which are like savings-credit cooperatives that we unanimously voted here in the assembly, but it's all about that. from the Constitutional Court to all institutions to harm those people who are damaged and will never be able to repay that debt but will be slaves to what we voted unanimously against here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19348	Thank you. You have one replica of Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19349	Dear Mr. Bull, you've only touched part of the question I'm interested in. Mrs. Devereaux. Oreshkovic said in her presentation, and she was well-identified that it was a problem, the problem of the institutions they had scheduled, we're not just talking about the Commercial Bank, we're not just talking about the CNB and we're not just talking about, we're talking about the Money Prevention Office. Have you received any reports on these issues in the Committee on National Security since these charges have been confirmed by the penalty, therefore, a major issue for national security? That's question no. 1. And question no. 2. if not, do you personally view this as a problem of national security? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19350	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19351	So that's what's happening to money laundering is problem no. One problem, that's problem no. 1st National Security. It's, like I said, possible that terrorism is funded, crime, who knows what it's all about, and that money is being laundered with us, and I don't think names have been told who did it, who it was, who people were doing it for, and why they did it for, and for what it was, question no. 1. As far as national security and national security are concerned, I am absolutely at risk, and I am asking the same question from this speaker to all competent institutions dealing with national security to the National Security Council, where both the president and the prime minister are together, to the Committee on National Security which will now be put into continuance and demand a thematic session to see what this one, these billions of laundered money has given away from terrorism or anything, but in this case, the institutions are silent and are working in the interest of who knows who. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19352	Thank you, too. You have no more replicas, and now, finally, on behalf of the motionary, the Secretary of State, Mr. Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19353	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a quick look at today's debate, subject to four laws. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore, as far as the debate is concerned, the esteemed representative Troscott has been troubled by the possible lack of vision and strategy, and what he wants to achieve by apostrophe to the current situation as regards the sale of part of Croatia's bank, a sale that is under way, which has its own obligations, which has its own rules, which is now in the analysis of the tenders that two have been accepted as so far, satisfied the conditions that they can be considered at all, considered and the CNB assesses the same. The problem here is why and who are these bidders, by chance, are strangers, and what do we want with it? He also problemed, here's just to get attached to it, so we had that example of the Adriatic Bank that was attached to HPB, and that's one of the bright examples in our history of credit institutions about the recovery of certain institutions and just shows what the esteemed representative of Lalovac was saying year after year, and how much we were implementing various laws, including similar ones that led to the stability and security of the financial market itself, so that in that process, the addition of the Adriatic Bank was neither damaged nor we had negative signs, believe me that no person was in any way brought into a far more favourable position to absolutely hear it. As for the issues raised here several times over the situation with our largest credit institution, what I can say and what is available from the media and the relevant one immediately, and in the debate of the esteemed representative of Bulja. Certain irregularities have been recognised, the regulator reacted, cut off 33 million kuna from a maximum of 38, with the obligation of course to recognise and to remove these irregularities. Further actions, if any, of any further criminal or any other nature, shall be taken on certain other bodies. As far as I'm concerned, I think the most important part about the esteemed representative of Troscott is the most important part. As for the esteemed representative Zekanovic, however, he pointed out that against the introduction of the EUR is it not bringing economic stability and prosperity to the citizens while all examples so far show the same. This is exactly how those EU members who were in the Eurozone had much greater funding opportunities and had much more opportunities left for them, and even now that we have been in the European exchange rate mechanism to deal with this crisis, of course all the parameters of all the members who entered the European zone have just shown that stability and prosperity are being brought and at lower transaction costs, in the case of reduced interest, and therefore we are more favourable, so there are many more benefits there, so that this claim cannot agree with it. He also potentiated questions about the Agency for the collection of claims, which I will refer to a little later in privatising Croatian banks what was in the past, although I have not seen which link he managed to bring with me personally and my belonging to a particular party or specifically to the HNS, it is only so likely to be inserted in just to say. The esteemed representative Lalovac absolutely summed up and summed up everything that mattered. So, as part of the accession of the euro zone, we continue to comply with certain and relevant laws. As business is done what is important, as is done in the European Union, so will business in Croatia. No double rules, double standards, double standards. We bring it all down to the same, and I think that's exactly the unification of one great benefit and our membership tomorrow in the euro zone, I hope. The deposit insurance system means we'll clear it up. Up to 100,000 euros per person is secured, or up to 130,000 in some cases. In my opinion, I mention what I stated in the opening explanation, so 5.3 billion will currently be at the end of this year... a deposit representing 2.54% and we know that here from this law, the standard of Europe will be 1.5%. As a general rule, what I can say is that insurance for both savings and savings by sight and by current accounts will be provided more or less by the Fund and the Restitution Fund in the large majority and will have the possibility of further safe and business with legal persons, but also by private persons providing their savings deposits and to be paid within 7 days. So everything summed up that this and the standard EU are bringing stability. The esteemed representative of Begonja certainly apostrophetically apostrophe to benefit and a stable financial system in relation to the functioning of this crisis and cited an example of positive stress-resistant testing and which were also without capital deficiencies as one of the conditions of stability for euro area accession, the stability of our credit institutions. He mentioned that we have entered from 1.10, which is true that the supervision of the European Central Bank as I have listed 6 plus 2 therefore, 6 large credit institutions and 2 residential savings banks are under direct supervision. That doesn't mean the CNBs aren't under surveillance. They're doing together and absolutely what brought us additional opportunities here for the CNBs to have insights about how they do business and queens. So he also mentioned a continuation of the reform itself. As for the esteemed representative of Dretar, he also referred to the current negative or bad history of bank institutions crises. He commended it in fact... and that it would bring prosperity or greater security as, as indicated. And now, as far as the issues of the deposits themselves are concerned, how many citizens have money in the banks that he has apostrophe, something is growing in this observed period. But that's about 30.9. 357 billion kuna. That's 210 out of it. As for the collapse of the banks and the steps themselves, so we didn't get a good understanding in that replica about the situation, I realized some irregularities in the second order. In fact, your theme is related to article 33 at severance. It's first order of business, not second. Compensation, says in paragraph 3. "Redemnitions up to the amount prescribed by law or collective agreement and demand on the basis of compensation suffered by... and professional illness." So this is where we talk about the law we know what legal severance is. It's that 1/3 average salary in the last six months for each year's internship. And it does not apply to all those who, when a particular company goes into bankruptcy or forced liquidation, will receive severance, but for all those procedures that have been completed and which the company owes on the basis of these severances. There are, of course, exceptions when going into bankruptcy that immediately, your main question of administration is not contained in that when society goes into bankruptcy and liquidation there is no activation of any gold parachutes or any severance of the administration. This is not the case in the bankruptcy society or in the company over which forced liquidation is carried out. So, here is what preceded the bankruptcy itself if someone got fired and had the right to severance it was not paid, it was in the first row together and with these unpaid salaries or the demands of workers actually created by the opening of a forced... working relationship procedure. As far as the second higher payment order is concerned, there are... the claims of the Croatian National Bank on the basis of public administrations and in our experience and other requests based on public administrations as defined by the tax regulations. In our experience so far, it's usually these very first rows have been charged almost as a rule. It was only in the lower payment lines that the payout was impossible. So I think I usually responded to the main part of the problem. As for the esteemed representative Bencic. Now, that's the question we had with a few MPs, and it's about selling and buying certain discounts. You should say that here we're talking about credit institutions, so when it comes to the purchase of credit ratings. There are no teleopers and some others. But in total, it is about 90% as regards the amount itself, but these others, of course, are much more numerous and much larger problems, in fact, remained sold claims. In 2019, as far as banks are concerned, such claims have been sold with a total of 4.2 billion kuna. That goes for both the principal and the interest. From 2011 to 2020, it is a total of 35 billion kunas, etc. NPL's Non-performing Loan or non-income loans. Of these, 16 were sold to other financial institutions, 13 to these agencies, and 6 were sold to private persons, law firms, etc. So, about 50%. Otherwise, as far as our stability in the banking sector is concerned, the share of these NPLs is about 5%, so 5.4%. Now, what's the main problem with anything that we can do here in the Credit Institutions Act except what's not today and who's watching? The CNB monitors that it is ensured that consumer rights are not put in a worse position and they are generally not because the sale clearly defines them and must inform the consumer, the debtor of the sale and they sell for which the consumer was due in the overall part. If there were to be sold something which is of the main elements that speak of the manual, the height of some interest, amounts, additions and principals, etc., that is what the CNB regulates. However, what is the main problem is not in the sale itself but what happens afterwards. In which way certain agencies do so which companies are which cannot be regulated by this law, but that does not mean that they should not be. This is an issue that is being resolved at EU level, which is not resolved and which we will certainly follow closely and participate at European Commission or EU level, but also here to start with a particular working group in which to deal with it because according to current positive regulations, this should be resolved under the Consumer Protection Act, the way they operate, the way they operate, how they literally and remarks in some particular, let's not say something harsh, but also the harassment of themselves, by the customers themselves. As far as the issue is concerned, statuted as in any other mandatory relationship. Therefore, the issue of limitations does not dispute the possibility of paying the debt in the sense that the debt exists only solves the issue of the same complaint. So, you can admit that debt or not, and now if someone is obliged to inform us so far, we have no obligation to inform their debtor that the debt has gone out of date. I think it's also in line with the Mandatory Relations Act. Also, as regards the agencies themselves, we believe that their business absolutely as I have already said may need to be monitored more closely, not that it should, but that this should and should be done so far as those companies should have been dealt with by the Consumer Protection Act, and in this direction, a solution should be found how to go. As far as these proposals are concerned, the supply of parts, so what we need to know is that these contracts are not sold individually, but rather as they say in the dwarves, is also sold to those who will never be charged along with those where the possibility of charging is partly and so are they completely. And that's why they do it. That's what they do. Why are banks doing this? In order to free themselves of the funds so that this is also the European Commission's strategy to release as much money as possible banks for further investment as possible, because you must know that the bank, as we have seen here in the law, is obliged to have the security of that deposit and they have those plasmas that have to remain on top of that money, other insurance money, and they also, when they release and clear the balance on how this is spoken to them in a Colloquitically and releases the amount that they have to keep proportionate to that insurance and therefore they are subject to it. We are at the level of the second law, the Law on profit tax went with the possibility of going into reducing these debt sales so that banks can recognise themselves as a cost. That's what in the moment between the two readings in the proposal and what I thought would contribute somewhat to this reduction of burdens and sales themselves. As regards the distinguished representative Oreshkovic, the proposal is not within the scope of these laws, he himself said that all officials or persons appointed by the Government or this assembly should or should not be regarded as officials, regulates exactly as the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests so that no other law regulates it, and then we can agree here and agree that it should not be in any of this, and as far as this law is concerned, it is another subject of discussion. As far as the esteemed representative Peric is concerned, we absolutely agree that this will bring risk reduction among all citizens and of course those legal persons and that he absolutely has this for the purpose and better efficiency. As far as the esteemed representative of Bulj is concerned, I've already referred here. I think I've managed to capture all your or your queries or, or debates. What I would conclude about this whole package as summed up, means we have a certain way of security that we follow through the Recovery Fund if there is a problem, through the Deposit Insurance Fund, where now the former DAB is now the current deposit insurance agency that will be called to monitor, finance not by taxpayers, and that these deposits amount to up to 1.5%, i.e. basic plus additional, and in fact, that ensure the savings of both citizens themselves and all legal persons. As regards the Resolution Fund, again new concepts in which we are introducing, among other instruments, the actual possibility of internal recovery to form a single recovery fund at EU level, and what is very good here cannot be said that because of some problem in Austria, problems occur here in Croatia or vice versa. So this whole level of security and the Reimbursement Fund itself, which again manages the Deposit Insurance Agency, leads to us being covered either in the event of an adverse event or in the event of forced or any other liquidation, and then we regulate the forced liquidation itself that this is no longer under the bankruptcy law, that we limit, that this goes as short as possible because the average of the current, current bankruptcy of certain companies is 14 years. We here give an instructional period of three years, of course we introduce other than liquidators and a supervisory body that is precisely this agency. In addition, we have the very assembly of absolute creditors, so we make more and more progress, we specialize in shortening the process, ensuring the return of all the funds and the smell of the creditors in this process, and I mean we round up the whole story and regulate the very roof law on credit institutions as well as what are minimum requirements for credit institutions of EUR 40 billion, EUR 30 billion, and this introduces a new concept for small and simple credit institutions to a billion in order to facilitate their ability, all with the same goal of increasing security, which is to free more funds and participation of credit institutions in the economic period of individual countries. So I thank you, in conclusion, for the debate, for the proposals and in the first and in this reading, and I hope that you will support, as is more or less, the adoption of these four laws mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19354	Stay here, you have two replicas. The first is Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19355	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Curaj, I would first of all like to congratulate you for staying in this government as a relic of the CNS, and the most important thing I want to warn the entire Croatian Parliament is the fact that the biggest problem, the greatest lack of our complete state structure, is the lack of control and control over those who carry out certain tasks of management over those who have been given authority to make decisions on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore all of us citizens. In this regard, I warned that it could indeed happen that a provision has been omitted from this law which would clearly and unequivocally define members of the Supervisory Board and the Director of the Croatian Insurance Agency for Depositary Deposits within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, but somehow I do not understand how it happens again from one law to another, regardless of what matter it is that we deliberately drop the express definition of the control and control system. That's what you should be counting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19356	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19357	I thank the distinguished MPs, so the surveillance and control system is regulated. First of all, we know who the regulatory authorities are and who they are. You're talking about the system and surveillance probably more personal, so persons like that, we think that I personally and that it's regulated by other laws. So, as far as the possibility of qualified these persons as officials is concerned, and what would that mean for them is going into that domain of personal responsibility and the supervision of the citizens or the public that I am assuming here that you want to introduce. And that's something that can be discussed under the right extension of amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. What I have to say here is that the very supervision of the work of that institution is clear and regulated, so what you can see is that this is one of the most regulated substances and legal provisions generally on the system is this very financial sector and that literally nothing is left behind anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19358	And Mrs. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19359	Thank you. Your Honor, when I was talking about the lack of control or the inability to control whether the requirement not to reduce the rights of the debtor or the consumer from a credit relationship that has to do with the credit institution in the purchase of that payment agency I was saying for the very reason that what you said, the CNB has control over the credit institution and can therefore control the purchase of plasma from the original, but can no longer. And what was my question is how do we control that demand not to diminish debt rights is realized, how do we control it? We don't control him at all, and we have to admit it. And we have to admit that we created a gray zone where citizens can really be bullied without any control. and without being able to complain and to exercise their rights. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19360	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19361	Thank you. Dear Representative Bencic, I think we agree here that this first control procedure is more or less regulated and that as regards the Law on Credit Institutions and Financial Institutions, our opportunities and powers cease. However, absolutely yes, further behavior should be regulated, I would say more of these agencies, the way they also disturb citizens and the way they approach and perhaps lead them into certain delusions, use certain charging modes and have a variety of complaints, and that is what has recognised not only this Ministry and the Government but also the European Commission that is not regulated at EU level and that is something that we will have to deal with absolutely as soon as possible and in the coming periods, especially after the end of this crisis and when possible, even though this last crisis has told us that they have reduced the obligations of such consumers, but certainly it will not go away and that is the problem that we will need to deal with further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19362	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, you have no more replicas, so I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move immediately to the following and also the last item of today's agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the Regulation of legal persons of special national interest is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 14. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, Mrs Sanja Bosnjak, who will introduce us to the topic, that is, this proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19573	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs and all the others present here, I warmly welcome you all on behalf of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, and I hope to give you a brief and very precise explanation of the proposal or the basis for a decision to amend the list of legal persons of special state interest. In fact, HS is still in session on 15 December 2010. on the basis of Art. On 11th century 7, the applicable Law on the Prevention of conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties made the first decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest published in the National Journal of No. 144 of 2010 The new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests from 2011, then 2012, several amendments, the addition of '13, 2015 and 2019. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In the 56th century, the decision is prescribed to remain in force until the provision of the Article. 14th century 3. prescribed that HS lays down a list of legal persons of particular national interest on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, life was taking place and still taking place in the Republic of Croatia, the circumstances of the work of many legal entities changed, the conditions of their work that were then on the list concerning the decision in question changed. The decision itself was subsequently changed three more times, 2014 and twice in 2015. Decisions amending and supplementing the list of legal persons of special national interest published in the National Journal of the European Union No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. Now, in front of you in these assembly benches, the new amended decision and the reasons for which we have come to this change precisely from these life situations some of the abovementioned legal persons on the list have either been abolished or have become the founding units of the competent ministries on the basis of some other rules, some of these legal persons have changed their names and therefore is one of the reasons why we should revise the existing decision. Some legal entities are no longer owned by the Republic of Croatia, and are therefore deleted from this list. And last but not least, it is that some new legal entities have been established which are at this moment of extremely important state needs. This primarily refers to the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County Reconstruction Fund, which was founded by the Law on the Reconstruction of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County, and by the contract of 29 October 2020. The role of the fund itself is to carry out professional tasks of rebuilding earthquake-damaged buildings and monitoring the implementation of the measures itself. The founders of the fund are as you know the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County. In view of the fact that the restoration by earthquake of affected areas is a very demanding and long-term process which is of particular importance not only for citizens in this area but also for the entire Republic of Croatia, it is proposed to include the relevant City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County Reconstruction Fund in the list of legal persons of special state interest. It is necessary to move forward as soon as possible in order to speed up the process of rebuilding the affected areas, and this decision provides that it enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. Here, as indicated on behalf of the motionors of this decision, we believe that the decision-making process in the coming days of the vote will be subject, as well as from the materials you received on your work benches. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19574	Thank you, too, please stay here because you have one replica, and it's from Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19575	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representatives, please give me an explicit and decident answer to the question, in addition to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, is there any other regulation, any other law, any other reason why this list of legal persons of particular national interest is even brought? What kind of regulation is that? What are the other rights for these legal persons and the possible responsibility of the state to those legal persons?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19576	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19577	So, as I said in the opening section, the proposal for this decision is related to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest through the said Article. 11th century 7th of the first law, i.e. Art. In the 56th century of the second recent Law on the Prevention of Conflicts, which is prescribed for the first decision to be taken, it means 2010. remain in force until the existing lists are revised. Now, what you're asking me is, in other laws, that I can't give up on the first information right now, but we're going to check it out anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19578	Thank you very much. No more replicas, you can go back to your place. And now is there anyone from the Legislative Committee who wants to take a word? No, I don't. That is why I am opening the debate, the first Mr. Miro Bulj of the Club of Representatives to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists on this decision, on this proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19579	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, we have before us an amendment to the Decision on the list of legal persons of special national importance. We see that these amounts are related to the Aftershock Fund, which is registered as a legal person, the founders of the said City of Zagreb, the state of Croatia and the County of Zagreb and Zagorje County, and we see that before there were similar to the city of Vukovar, the town of Vukovar had its own Protection Fund, but I believe that in this register, looking at the so far it is in the register of significant meanings of the legal person from the agency which I do not know what they are serving, then I should now explain what they are doing, perhaps by name they are significant, but when we look at what they have done in this matter of this importance which the tribals would deal with as well as paying agencies in agriculture, then I am watching that agriculture, fishing and rural development, so when I see that this very farm is never in the worse condition, and we see and never in the worse condition, here I only see the Castellan greenhouses that should be the key and the biggest producers who want to be able to look at home, and to see them, and to be able to look at both to work well at the jobs, and to deal with both of the business. The workers who receive the pay are 40. Therefore, when I read here I see important cultural, cultural institutions listed here, so it is not clear to me since I come from Sinj, there are some cultural reasons why here is not Sinjska alka, the Knight's Alkarian society which has great importance in the tradition of the Republic of Croatia, the cultural, historical unit associated with, of which means 305 years and with faith, culture, the existence of that people in that area is very important and I will give the amendment to Sinjska alka, i.e. The legal personality of the Knighty Alkarian society is of particular importance, but I see that some cultural institutions are listed here, but not so important, so everything is important, every part of the Republic has some significant cultural associations, but here it seems that Sinjska alka, if you can see whether there is a Knighty Alkarska society, see that the ergels are listed in the area of the Republic of Croatia so that there should be representation of those significant which the state should not only be significant when the Alka and Velka Gosa in Sinj is what we all know is a symbol of the alka survival of the people in that area. As far as this fund itself is concerned, we could set up another fund for 2/3 of Croatia, which, while the earthquake has also caused great damage to Zagreb and neighbouring counties, has caused major damage, but major disasters have been caused by politics in 2/3 of Croatia, we look at Slavonia, let's watch Zagorje, let's watch Gorski Kotar, Liku, the Dalmatian Zagora, so it would be good for you to have the fund in the first place. Fund for these 2/3 of Croatia, for example. for the Dalmatian Zagora, which is absolutely empty, devastated and all of them raised their hands from those parts that were most potent in terms of human potential. The valleys lived numerous families in these places, villages that they have, places, cities, settlements in the area, today we have literally empty schools. We down have a demographic problem so that this plan in the future should be a fund for the Dalmatian Zagora, a fund for Lika, a fund for Gorski Kotar, because it is not only what the earthquake has done evil in Zagreb. Zagreb experienced a disaster, however, meaning a disaster that was huge, the earthquake was dramatic, but 2/3 of Croatia under emergency should have its fund. I repeat 2/3 of Croatia would tribale have its fund and be in strategic document i.e. of special national importance on the list. It's not there. I want to tell you why. Because nobody cares about 2/3 of Croatia. I know that Zagreb is the capital, the center of everything, the centre, but the Dalmatian Zagora is thrown away, no one cares, no one cares about demographic devastation, no one cares that there are no more jobs, no one cares that we don't have infrastructure, all we have left is the exploitation field of various interests in this area, if there's some kind of miner who has no interest in the down population or that my Cetina gives 40% of the hydropower in the Republic of Croatia that absolutely nothing returns. We have problems in this area, absolutely devastated. And if you see the schools down there in those areas in the Dalmatian Zagora, they're collapsing. So there's not one student, two, but there isn't one. I was in my son's neighborhood yesterday. I'm sorry it's not the mayor of Drnish. For what? What are the results? What are the results... certain of course here has of course that deserve to be, what are the results of the agricultural agency, which? What has been the result of Croatian agriculture since we joined the EU? Our exports are increasing, it has doubled in half since we entered food products now three billion, and when we entered the EU before we entered, we were importing a billion and a half euros in agricultural products. So if we're thinking strategically, then we don't just have to wait for earthquakes and floods. We have worse, and these are policies towards two-thirds of Croatia that are demographically broken and there are no more people in the area, and we have huge potential. And these are the ends, here I am talking about my Sinj is the most potential for development and life from Savudrija to Prevlaka, 20 minutes from Split, with a few projects regarding infrastructure, irrigation and some projects that have been proposed countless times, often and opened, stone foundations laid before the elections, mostly ahead of the elections, and the election year is the one that is coming to us, we absolutely have nothing left. I am saddened that in the free Croatia we fought for that I have to talk like this, and believe me, these are the most prospective parts. We're being tampered with by the fund, i.e. We need money and projects in this area to get people back down to live. I invite people, go back mainly to those who went to third countries, but they can't go without the state that raised their hands. Zagreb was at the heart of this whole story, of course as I said there are media, there is the main representative body, but the scream of these people from the field is not heard, can't hear. It is amazing that in these areas, respected representatives of the government, people have no water supply, and they look at the river Zrmanja, in the river Krka, in the river Cetina or I don't know, they see their tributaries as well. Zagreb has experienced what this fund has experienced to be entered into strategically as a special state importance in the register. But gentlemen, two-thirds of Croatia are extinct. The census will show you that we are below four million. Well Lika-Senj County is literally empty, Zagora is literally empty. So get serious in the Croatian government, and not only is Zagreb important, and what happened in Zagreb don't let God not happen again. There were victims, there was a girl who died, it could have been worse. But you forgot that mountain cotter, so go away, look than it is important to you to talk about Zagreb. I want to tell you why. Because there are a million people and about a million and a half people, and two-thirds of Croatia are cut off. And that's why most people don't understand why I don't hear the voice of Mayor Drnis and other people in these areas or Slavonia from most of them I'm talking about parliamentary deputies, so it's all empty. And these 200, these, these lists of these It's insignificant. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19580	Thank you. Now, Mr. Bartulica will state his position on this decision by the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19581	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. This item of the agenda gives us a good reason to discuss state governance with these institutions, in addition to this list we have companies of particular interest, there are almost 40 more. And the first question is, is it necessary for the state and no one else to manage all these institutions? And if it is, is it good and rational in the interest of Croatian citizens? And I mean, unfortunately, there are countless examples that lead us to a negative answer. I will not specifically talk about these new funds, it is not disputed that something serious should be done after this devastating earthquake, and we will support any effort to make what is necessary after such an event transparently. However, I will take the opportunity to remind you a little of some examples where it is seen that in fact these institutions are largely serving our political oligarchy to continue to govern Croatia in this clientelistic and corrupt way. There are also some illogicalities in this list, public universities are listed, for example, all public schools, but no secondary school, high school, primary school, are involved. counterpart Bulj mentioned the sad fact that some schools are closing, but again the principle question is why only higher schools, not other institutions in our school. Then we have the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, but not in other cities such as Osijek, Split, Rijeka and the like, I do not understand why. But we're going in a row, so there's all the hospitals, so clinical hospital centers. We saw through the example recently in a conversation between Minister Beros and one doctor running competitions in Croatia for the main positions of such an institution. So, in the HDZ, all advance arrangements, more and more know who these places are reserved for and shows up with the right one great cynicism among our people because they often know that such public tenders have been set up and pre-arranged. And then the question arises why do you even report when it's all pre-arranged? Also about managing the state, it should be said that our universities that are cared for by the state, public universities don't stand well on the ranking lists, we lose the race in this competitive world, a competitive environment. And what I will repeat in Croatia I see as a major problem that a country where it is not necessarily necessary to be present is too present and interferes too much, especially in the real economy, and where it is necessary to do business in the interests of citizens, the judiciary, for example. It does not work effectively. On the list of legal persons as far as the companies I mentioned are concerned, there is also an Immunological Institute that actually tells a sad story, we know that the situation, the question of whether it will ever be brought back to life, and this pandemic is another reminder of how much some of these institutions really are of strategic importance. So, again, we have an example of a bad one not to say a catastrophic negligence in the management of national resources. We have a company like ACI Marine, and the question is, why should the government deal with these services? I think the experience shows that a free economy, a market economy is the best solution for many activities and this one. The question arises, why in 2020 does the state still consider it of strategic interest? This list has over 160 of them and these are institutions of different purposes, we have all the institutes, next to the universities of all the institutes, museums and agencies, I think that citizens rightly ask the question, what all these powerful agencies are for, are they really doing their job. If Croatia has remained empty or half empty in many parts, then the conclusion is that they are not fulfilling their purpose. Our most important resource is our people, and that's where we lose the race. We have countless institutions, the state takes great care of all of us, and our people leave Croatia, we have school closures and so on. Therefore, it is not disputed that every country really has the responsibility and the right to have certain institutions under its authority and that these are legitimate things, but unfortunately in Croatia we see that our elites have failed. They've made an appointment where corruption and clientelem can continue. We also had a medical case where we see debt build-up, so it's obvious that hospitals don't operate in a good and rational way. I'm going to ask the question again, why do doctors necessarily have to run all these facilities? I think it would be much better for all of us to do so by managers who have experience and knowledge to manage healthcare, not doctors who are trained to treat people, not make decisions about money and make decisions like that. However, in this big drug crisis, the government launched another idea to start its own bigotry. So, in addition to all examples of Janaf, Croatian highways where we see abuse and where money is shared by hand and hat and in fact the state is exploited by certain stakeholders, the government is considering establishing its own wholesalerry. So, it's not enough that we have on the private company market, but the government has to have its own bigotry. And that reminds me of a quote by a well-known American economist and Nobel laureate Milton Friedman, he said governments never learn lessons from experience, governments never do, only people can learn from their mistakes and unfortunately Croatia confirms that quote. The same bad habits are repeated to the harm of all of us. This alleged stability that we're constantly listening to is expensive and it's actually very fragile and false, it's best seen through a demographic image. And I'm afraid if we don't think about the new management model, nothing will change. Here, this may be an incentive to think, we have nothing against these new funds, but we have very much against this current way of managing Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19582	Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreskovic will present the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club on this decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19583	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs, there is a reason why in the replica I asked representatives of the proposing whether there is any other law, any other regulation that has led to this decision on the list of legal persons of special state interest. Of course there isn't, and I asked that question because I'm aware and I know that a large number of MPs in HS don't know the system. A colleague of Bulj, a colleague of Bartulica, a colleague of Benčić and all of you, the only purpose of making a list of legal persons of special national interest is to enable the first echelon or someone who is loyal to the first echelon and obedient to be placed in the board of directors and supervisory boards of those legal entities. And the purpose of this concrete decision that we are discussing today is to allow officials to enter the administrative council of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, and therefore I will vote against it. So, regardless of this, ignore what the Proposer and the Proposer said in their explanation that this list was last updated in 2015, so that since then several legal persons have been abolished or attached to the ministries, that some legal persons have changed their names, and some new ones have been established, and that this list should therefore be revised. That's what I'm talking about. So, all clubs and all representatives who at least call in campaigns and commercials for the fight against corruption, I will call on them to support me in this initiative, in this proposal of mine. So there are two reasons. The first is that I challenge the constitutionality and legality of the way in which the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund was established. Namely, art. The 83rd century of the Constitution is prescribed that the laws under which the structure, part-circuit and manner of operation of the state bodies are laid down by the HS are adopted by the majority of the votes of its representatives and these laws are considered organic laws. All other funds currently in existence in the Republic of Croatia are established by law. The City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County Rehabilitation Fund is the only fund we have established by contract and it is one of the great shames of this called HS. Now let me just mention the specific funds, so we have the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, for the purpose of forming this fund, we have passed the Law on the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. We have a fund to finance the construction and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants. And this fund was also established by law and by law that we passed in order to fulfil the obligations between Croatia and Slovenia's state contract. Then we have a Fund for the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar which is also proposed to introduce legal persons of special interest, but for this fund we also passed a special law, so the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. And he's coming back to this Fund on the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb. So, because it was founded by a contract, and not by organic law, we dispute constitutionality, we challenge its legality, and we challenge legitimacy. And I resent all those who voted for the Earthquake Recovery Act because by raising our hands for that law, we have brought down legal and democratic standards. We've fallen to the fact that instead of the organic laws, the new state bodies of public authorities are set up by contracts. This has led HS to take its own legislative role in the way that the creation of the internal structure of a state body has left it to the executive authority at the state, regional and local level, and that means that the executive authority can, in its opinion, design and whenever it wants to change the internal structure, part-round and way of working of that body. And in this particular case, it is a fund that will implement the most expensive project of the decade, whose value will already be estimated at more than 80 billion kuna. All that is done is to control the work of that body as weak as possible and to make it smaller, and this decision on the list of legal persons of particular interest is being made, and this is why I am against it? Therefore, as a rule, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is prescribed that officials cannot be members of administrative bodies and supervisory committees in institutions and outside budget funds. That's the rule. And as an exception, it is prescribed that if it is legal persons of particular interest, whether they have been identified by HS or local or regional self-government units. And how does this particular interest reflect? Not because neither the inclusion in this list brings any kind of benefit, any greater rights, nor creates a greater responsibility of the state towards that legal person. The only thing the list brings is the possibility for officials to be placed in the administrative bodies and supervisory committees. And the truth is, for that membership, they must not receive compensation, but it is not even in charge of the point, the point is in the power to decide, the point is in political distress, which means in the party's party's grip on, in power over state bodies that should carry out a certain professional and professional task. So how exactly does this affect the fund now? Therefore, the government will appoint 5 members, the mayor of the City of Zagreb 2, and one member will be appointed by the Mayor of Krapina-Zagorje and the Mayor of Zagreb. If we want a professional and professional council right now, we will make sure that it has professionals and experts, not officials, not politicians, not Deputy Milan Bandic or his deputy. But obviously it's not an emergency. This list of legal persons of particular state interest is actually a relic from the former law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and it has been translated as a tape into a new law and again we support a bad falsely designed system. The Republic of Croatia and its citizens do not need this list at all, neither do legal persons themselves. They do not protect any public interest, it creates exclusively the political interest of the executive government to place politically similar people in important positions. And if we want to improve the anti-corruption system, the abolition of this list would be a small but useful step, and the right step would be to include all directors, directors and boards of all legal persons on this list, as well as all other legal persons established by the state, county, city or municipality in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because believe or not the large majority of positions where corruption on a daily basis is entirely under radar and any control. Our entire state structure was designed so that old chaos and chaos and an unprecedented possibility of robbery. And it's sad to see the uninterested opposition take any real step towards introducing order into the system. So once again I appeal, this list should simply be forgotten and given up once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19584	Thank you, too. Mr. Krunoslav Katičić will be the positions of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19585	The Honorable Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I have the honour to present on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club a position on the issue of a decision on the list of legal persons of special state interest. I would also like to point out that the HDZ Club will support the decision in question as it is, in the proposed text. Of course, as already mentioned in the opening statement and during this debate, the decision in question has a legal foothold in Article 14(3). The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, so I would just like to remind, among other things, that the last amendment to the list in question was somewhere in 2015, in which 53 companies, 178 institutions and 5 extra-financial funds are located. It is also also true that it has already been pointed out several times during the debate that the list in question has been changed in 2015 from some legal persons there have been various forms of companies to extra-financial funds and institutions abolished or because they are attached to the relevant ministries, so that they have met part of the state administration or certain companies have ceased to be owned by the Republic of Croatia, and for this reason one of the basic reasons why they have ceased to be present on this list. As is evident from the decision in question, one of the basic motives is the reason to add to it, i.e. the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund and the Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County. I do not agree here with the current.../incomprehensible/... presented theologians or I believe that this provision and amendment will just increase the transparency, public and efficiency of the fund in question, which is one of the forms that the City of Zagreb, which is damaged by the earthquake, is completely restored in accordance with the wishes and needs of the city, the citizens of the City of Zagreb, and which will make it possible to enter the so-called so-called city. person who and the administrative council are able to provide just as well as all functions for the City of Zagreb. Also, the less highlighted in this text the Fund for the Development of the City of Vukovar and the restoration of the city of Vukovar was delivered on the same list, which is one of the great excerpts that this area that was devastated in the war was further qualified despite all the efforts so far and the effective activities that the Government has carried out on the reconstruction of the city of Vukovar. In view of this fund, I think it is a good idea to complete with the appropriate human resources for the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and Vukovar as soon as possible, so that they can start to deliver results in full capacity on the well-being of those people who live there. Furthermore, I think that exactly in line with this decision is the clear urgency of the legislator, as well as of the executive authorities to align themselves with the new situation and to help solve and the epidemiological reasons that have hit us. Also, when you look at the full list of legal persons found on the same list, it shows that there are almost all activities that are important for the normal functioning of the state and for the system of the entire state administration as designed in the Republic of Croatia. No matter what funding this is, there are legal entities that are financed from both the budget itself and the extra-financial funds. I therefore repeat, in conclusion, that the HDZ Club will support the proposed decision in question and, accordingly, vote in favour of this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19586	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19587	Thank you very much. ... individual debates would only say that here I am observing certain institutions so that they are listed when amending this decision legal persons of special importance to the Republic of Croatia, so... let's say the County Hospital i.e. General Hospital Veteran General in Knin "Croatian Pride" that has been forgotten. I was giving amendments here where all the county founders raised the state, the only thing you gave us was a name in the City of Knin in the city of pride in the city where freedom is celebrated by Croatian peoples so the most honorable and sacred operation of Croatian soldiers, they all raised their hands from it. I even gave amendments, every year I give five million kunas to the pool so that veterans and the people who live there, it's general, so all the animals in the Dalmatian area are burned down by the only hospital, everyone has given up on it both the founder and the state. Why this special list? I see health homes, several health homes are listed, probably with the right of Petrinja, Gospić, which is why it is not a health home, for example in Sinj, Vrgorec, Drnis, which is why he is not on the list of special ones, but if they are fusiond why is not Split-Dalmatia County, Sibenik-Knin County, I don't know where all the fusiond homes of health are, why they are not listed here? And what's the interest of this list is essentially, colleague Dalia Oreshkovic invites me not to know the institutions, that those who know them didn't do their job or else he wouldn't have been the chairman of the local board that the institutions were his job, and not that Miro Bulj would be in HS, that those who know the institutions didn't do their job for which it was intended, and I really don't know the institutions in the sense that I knew someone from Janaf, that I worked for Janaf, any other case I wasn't really involved or interested in it, but I knew when I entered the Assembly we remember the INA case when I came from the village some man came here we know that I knew very quickly what the system was. So I would once again say, if we only put political decisions on this list of strategic essential institutions, only for that, it's pointless. I repeat, if we move a number of universities, why aren't the primary schools in Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Lica listed? Here, someone can count which ones are empty. Here's Drniš Mayor here, empty schools that could be revised through certain projects and programs to get people back into these areas and we're going to work on it, not to give up laws on mountain-mounted areas, undeveloped areas without financial frameworks. And there's a problem, you know what the problem is? We've got a growing list, and it's actually getting worse. I see these agricultural agencies, the more agricultural agencies we import the less we produce agricultural goods, and that's the problem. But two-thirds of Croatia are literally felt. Why doesn't he have a fund for the Dalmatian Zagora, for example? Here is counterpart Kujundzic, head of one of the largest municipalities, the second largest municipalities in Split-Dalmatia County, why do we not have a fund, a special fund for the area? But the surface, the PR laws that exclusively serve only for pre-election activities, and we know how important they are for these ends of projects. ... we mention the thoughts of our resources, energy our resources, the sea of our resources, we all have the resources of a number of institutes, and in fact we didn't have the courage to protect neither the forest nor the exclusive economic belt, the Italians will declare it, so we'll probably try something then, but we'll see how much Tajani, fascist Tajani, will allow us to make Plenkovic's friend, we'll see. Because just to spread these lists, it really does come to me to tear this whole thing apart, but there are honorable institutions that may not be there to tear this paper up, but literally this paper is if we just put this on the list of a number of agricultural agencies, just... the smart Castelan greenhouses that are full of now healthy salad, pickles of everything, and they want to move them out, and people live on it. So this is just one pamphlet pre-election And talk about it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19588	Thank you very much. For information only, Tajani is in opposition. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19589	Comrade Bulj, I see you have not understood what I am warning you and all the other MPs in this HS. This list gives absolutely no right to additional rights to the legal persons on it, no matter who is there or who is not there. This list exclusively serves to place its staff policies, or politicians, officials in the administrative boards and supervisory committees where otherwise under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should not be, this is the case. One single purpose, I say, is to play the general rule of the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. And everything else we want to achieve will be the name of a list of legal persons of particular importance of speech, it doesn't exist, it simply doesn't exist. This serves politicians and officials, not legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19590	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19591	... However, I agree, if you haven't heard me with this finding that it's simply important that who's going to be in the administrative councils or bodies that monitor this, and that's the most important thing that the system is controlled in terms of flow or money or certain decisions that go in favor of anyone who knows who, either in terms of energy institutions, or the environment, I see that the same Environment Agency that's done more harm than good, so when I'm looking at this list of me, I'm sorry that some institutions that are probably doing their job, even here are listed by the institution, here are a couple of institutions that deserve not to look for now, but the Immunological Institute, let's say, which should have been the key institution of the Republic, but it was destroyed literally, targeted. [[Specially enabled.]] And for what? That's what I'm asking now, because that's what politics has decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19592	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19593	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Bulj, except that in, and about 80% of cases in the Republic of Croatia in local administration and self-government units, so municipalities and cities in HDZ or SDP shocked me last night when I studied this decision a little bit and let's not be lazy to check out politically this status of the people who run these institutions, mostly down in Dalmatia, actually came to the conclusion that the political octopus is one paw whether HDZ or SDP's essentially through a list of large parts of these institutions controls how the very ones she set up there, and then all those who are actually currently in the phase of some of their search for a place under this political starry sky. I'd have more, but I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19594	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19595	So he agreed with these institutions that I have now mentioned here the health homes of the Split-Dalmatia County, the home of health which is the largest home of health in the Republic of Croatia because it is fusified, so the entire county 500,000 people is fused in 13 health homes, 2002 is fused into one home of health and he should be here. However, yes and here is here recently there has been a competition, a colleague of Kujundzic for the driver, whom he will hire, no one is capable but the head of the County of Split-Dalmatia or other jobs within the home of health are mostly either doctors of ruling or coalition partners. So these are the institutions that could be listed here for politically similar persons for employment. It's not good and it's a bad message and it's a tribune to change if that's all it's brought about. And our potential that we have should mean there should be legal frameworks for these areas, mainly for these areas, it only changes here because of Zagreb and because of the earthquake of the unfortunate, the tribals would be legal. frameworks with a financial envelope relevant to the project. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19596	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Joseph Begonja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19597	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I had no intention of answering, but I heard outside in the hallway of my colleague Bulja as he said about Drniš that the country was burned. And that's true, but '95. When we returned from persecution, the whole Drain area was burned. I'm not going to tell you that nearly 15,000 people have been persecuted. Today, however, we have 1,760 jobs in the area of Drniš, people who work. It is also said that people in Dalmatia do not have a water supply solved, possibly if we will identify the Dalmatian Zagora as a colleague from Vrgorac in his day. That's really and possibly possible. Drnish has 27 settlements. 26 is connected to public water supply, and in the year ahead, project technical documentation will be produced for 27 settlements, so we will have 100% coverage of public water supply. Furthermore, it is said that there are no kindergartens, there may not be them in the Cetina region, but Drnis from his 3 neighbouring municipalities or rather the former municipality of Drniš certainly represents the central part of the Dalmatian township of Sibenik-Knin County. And just over the last two years, three kindergartens have been built by European means, and the fourth one is built with total values of 20 million kuna. Peter's field and irrigation. Petrovo polje, I think my colleague Bulj knows, and he may not know, there are 5,280 hectares, but what he certainly doesn't know has more than 2,000 owners and what he certainly doesn't know, which is that the Sibenik-Knin County made a good part of the project technical documentation and when there was an environmental impact study in 2016. I won't say who was then Minister at the Ministry of Protection and the Environment, guess yourself, and the title in the media came out of Petrov's field decided the fishfish, you can see it, for the reason that the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, together with the Croatian jitology Society, determined that there is an endemic species in the river Cicola, the Dalmatian gaovica, and therefore could not approve an environmental impact study. It is often said here that 100,000 people have moved out of the Dalmatian mountain, perhaps 150 I do not know, but I do know that this is the first wave that happened since World War II in the industrialization process of the population census '51. and a census in '91. He says 20,000 people have moved out of the area of the former municipality. Long before the Homeland War and, of course, long before a colleague here honors the crime scene wearing HDZ. What is important in the last 7 years is to note that the town of Drniš has spent or implements 20 European projects of total value of 130 million kuna grants, that at this time for the next financial envelope we have projects worth over 200 million kuna, that after the Homeland War we have 16 small prosciutto producers whose capacities are higher than pre-war, that in Drniš you may also not have known on public surfaces unlike Zagreb that has 5 works by Ivan Meštrović, Split who has 4 works by Ivan Meštrović, the town of Drniš has 6 and is arranged in the value of 5 million kunas of permanent works by Ivan Meštrović. As for the revitalization of empty schools, there are, unfortunately, there are. But for example, with the European funds, the former Regional School in Bogatići will become a hostel by the end of the calendar year, and the former branch school in Bristane has prepared a project to report for a competition for the cultural information centre. There's talk about the Dalmatian Burn Development Fund. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as it has set out in its programme, will create a programme for the revitalisation of the Dalmatian Zagora, like Banovina and Gorski Kotar, something by example of the Fund or the programme of revitalisation of Slavonia, Baranja and, and this Srijem. Ladies and gentlemen, I could talk, it's the end of time, more about the Drink End, but it's a shame, when you've had your father's call, and I have no intention of coming forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19598	Thank you, but you have, you have a lot of replicas, you have a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to complete yourself because the first is Mr. Mira Bulja's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19599	Thank you very much. You didn't deny me anything, you say no settlement in 2021, there's no water supply, this year we'll make it. Is it embarrassing and sad that any village has no water supply in the 21st century? Now you wanted to compare the power of the Chetino region and the Dredna region. Tell me, how many Drains does the population have as much as they have in 2011, how many in 2001? How many people have you brought back to your hearth and how much has the county done to make you have good health care, to have a good hospital, here's Knin, what's done? I'm saddened by everything that you've said about Peter's field, about the hospital, about the home of health, about all your projects, why are you voting against the irrigation of Peter's field? Why are you voting against the Knin hospital to invest $5 million, why? I don't see any reason, you suggest, I'll vote, you suggest, I'll vote if you're uncomfortable. So I don't have a problem with that, but you're looking Obviously other eyes on the mountain than me, in the whole area from Krka to Neretva. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19600	Here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19601	Thank you, Vice President. Not my colleague Bull, I'm not looking differently than I'm telling the facts and the truth. So, 2016, I didn't say now, I'm going to say, the Minister of Environment was your party colleague, and then, let me, and then the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, I repeat myself, said it couldn't be done to irrigate Peter's field, whoever it was you wanted. Why? Because it has an endemic species and it's protected. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know what else you asked me here, home to health, unlike the Split County in Sibenik-Kninska every home of health is separate, it wasn't integration like you said. And if you're talking about the hospital in Knin, you see the city of Drnis has helped fund some things to improve the conditions for our defenders coming to heal themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19602	Thank you very much, ma'am. The coat of arms is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19603	Dear Mr. Vice President. Col. Begonja, this document did not come as some people think in the same way as they do in the same way as they do in the same way as they do in the same way as some people think in the same way as they do in the same way, because it is, in fact, difficult for me to listen to this because some MPs do not even know the purpose and purpose of this, it is not only what the dear colleague Bencic claims, but rather the intention of strategically determining ourselves according to places where we are going to be able to respond to big problems and threaten and because I am glad that this document has brought up health institutions, KBCs, hospitals and some homes of health that do not have any other part of developed healthcare. So this is important to support this document and I'm sure you'll agree to the Sibenik-Kninska from which you come, but also for other counties and all these people sitting here next to me agree that the document is fine. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19604	We have, I'm sorry, but before we answer, we have a breach of Mr. Bull's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19605	Thank you very much. A colleague hurt her ankle. 238, because she said the MPs absolutely don't understand what this law is about. We didn't talk you out of it when you once said we needed to go to... The headquarters mask, and then after two days, you said that, yes, you shouldn't wear a mask. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we didn't understand anything about you, so let the MPs I think... She deserved a warning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19606	Thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, you earned a warning that you got it right, yeah. ... No, it's not a name, no, no, no, no, no, no, I won't forgive me for giving myself a warning, no more reason to, for the injury, I have to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you'll get a warning. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19607	Dear colleague Bulj has been injured by an officer. In 238, because he twisted my words, I didn't say at all what he said, he misinformed the council and all those who listen to us, so now please give him a nice warning, if he's completely incorrectly twisted my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19608	Okay, that's not in 23, that's not in 238, so I have to give you a heads-up. Uh, there's nothing in 238, twisting words, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no. Here you go, Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19609	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues, you are right, in these times of crisis, so the government must bring a document that is of strategic interest to him at national level and it is certainly that in the segment of health care she listed those institutions without which they could not be resilient or without which they could not function qualitatively in these truly unusual times.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19610	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19611	Thank you very much. Comrade Begonj, it is good that you have denied this gentleman, he is otherwise an independent statistician at MOST and he always has his statistics and whatever he says is just as it is, he doesn't care what the institution says, what you say as mayor of that city etc. Because he's one of the MPs who's just about his end from the Cetina region, the Dalmatian Zagora, speaking so negatively that he's got a burned country almost every day here in HS, so who's voting for him? Turns out he lives here alone, in that mountain, in that Cetina province because there's no life there, and there's life there. Here you have said what is going on there, but to make sure that these and such people from the Most should go to Metkovic when we talk about the drain system, so that you can see how they solved the system was a purifier and what it looks like today when the Most team had the opportunity to manage Croatian waters and what they did down there in that town. So to determine what level of expertise that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19612	FURIO RADIN:... Mr. Bull. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19613	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, injured Article 238, as Plenkovic's snowflake, is simply telling numerous lies. The Cetina area is the most prospective and the most beautiful and you need to know it and you will not know it.../incomprehensible/... in your mouth, as a constant substitute MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19614	Thank you very much. Now you Mr. Boric, and then I'll decide on the warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19615	Thank you very much. Article 238, Mr. Bulj does not know how to behave in the assembly and again means he is trying to offend almost anyone who opposes his arguments. So he did now in my case and you didn't give him a warning, and he deserved it because he simply couldn't endure his own mistakes as well as MOST's mistakes and all of his abdominals who persuaded him to talk here every day about his Zagora in such a bad way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19616	I said I'd decide later on. You have both two, both of you have a warning for the simple reason that it's not the Dalmatian Zagora law, and you keep telling each other these questions about one region and that in a way that, I'm sorry, but, but personal, here's personal, personal. You're both personal. Uh, but I'm sorry, I don't think I'd write such a Rules of Procedure, though, is that it. Mr. Begonja, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19617	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, in this house everyone can say what they want and the truth and the lie, so we have listened since the beginning of this term, at least I who am in it for the first time. But let only one review of the amendment that, past these points of the agenda, namely one amendment requested the reconstruction of the State Road D33 from Sibenik via Drnis to Knin. The road has been reconstructed until behind Drnis and a project technical documentation for next year to continue to Knin. So the amendment itself may have a good intention, except he's late and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19618	Oh, would it be nice to go back to this one to get back on the subject of this, this decision. Mr. Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19619	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Begonja, so the people in Drnis chose you and now they're probably happy with you, now in the next election we'll see whether or not they are. I'd go back to the subject we're talking about. Tell me how you interpret the fact here is the specific Port Authority of Split, how you interpret the fact that here are the last 15 years in the very peak of management within the port administration starting with the director himself and four deputies constantly changing HDZ and SDP as such. So are you interpreting this as the fact that here's the institution actually mentioned as the bed where HDZ and SDP hold their paws or interpret it as actually the best individuals selected in these places?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19620	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19621	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, in two ways, I'm interpreting that statement of yours. The first is that my first associates are not members of the HDZ, even some of them are sympathetic to your strangers, but they are good workers and they are really professional. And as for the Port Authority in Split, I'm not familiar with it, I'm still coming from another county, and I'm guessing that all these people who have been through it neatly so far, and we can't stop them from being members of some party. The truth God is not the Most, but they are these others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19622	Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19623	Dear Vice President, respected colleague Begonja here is constantly mentioned as some sort of clientelism, etc., and when you look at the relation to whether the Zagreb and Zagreb County Reconstruction Fund and Krapina-Zagorje are some kind of elitism and clientelism, so the goal is actually to invest as much as possible huge funds that is more than EUR 40 billion, of which only the state and state budget should invest 60% of the minimum, so what are we talking about? Does the state have the right to control the investment of these funds or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19624	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19625	Thank you, Vice President, colleague, colleague Peric, you are absolutely right. Well, you can't single out the funds without denying yourself the right to have no control over those funds. It is a huge amount of money and what should be proud of everyone, and it is a spot-on action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the allocation of funds and the acquisition of funds from the EU, and ultimately the normative resolution of problems and issues of reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County and neighbouring county.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19626	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you very much. Who? Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev. Please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19627	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Begonja here is being bombed daily by the care of the Dalmatian Zagora, about the drenical end of some of our colleagues who say it's a burned, evicted country, crying at bus stations, about the forgotten end, and in fact from your exposure, we have seen that this is not a forgotten end, that it's working out, thinking about new projects running on and on European funds, withdrawing those funds and this at the time of your big commendation to you and all those who work in such a way for the Drain and the Dalmatian Zagora, and not populistly simply calling out and thus thinking to highlight their concern for the Dalmatian Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19628	No, isn't that right, Mr. Bully, not that, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Kujundzic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19629	Yes, Article 238, my colleague Branka, I'm glad you said that. You know why? I have no need to discuss with you as well as with Mr. Begonja what he did in Drnis and what is the situation in Drnis. What I'm glad to see is that what you said, I will personally cut and lift to my facebook let the people of the Imotian landscapes see it and judge it myself. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19630	It was a replica, you have a warning and you know it. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19631	The violation of Article 238, therefore, is not populist when it is warned about what is happening in the Dalmatian Zagora, how many people are emigrating. And tell me, here you are close to fellow Boric that MOST in Metkovic made more kilometers of sewerage network than the Jambo in 16 years with a devasted budget that he devastated because he was in coalition with Jamba and he was again. With Bandic, Jamba and Kerum, these are the coalition partners of Mr. Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19632	Thank you, thank you very much. It may not be populism, but it's a warning. This one I'd like to ask you now, look, there are three of you from the Most here and you can be, there could be two from the Most, okay. Now Mr. Bull is coming to speak, so you can stay here. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19633	Dear Vice-President Radin, I would like to ask all MPs from the HDZ ranks to welcome my colleague Bulj from now on, as Italy and Croatia have decided together to declare an exclusive economic belt. For 10 years a man has been telling you that it is good for Croatia, you have not listened to it, now Croatia is going to declare it We'd like to ask that the rules of greeting be changed in the assembly, here and I'll leave the assembly here. [[Okay, okay, good, good.]] Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19634	Okay, all right, all the papers are, all the newspapers have written about it and you have a note and a reminder to take away the words. And please, please leave the assembly room. That everyone knows that yesterday, that yesterday, that the works about what you mentioned had begun, I was present. Now there are two of you inside and you have to answer, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19635	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll only tell you for a little while. So, in 2013, there were 198 children in the central building and in the district departments of Drniš kindergarten, we have this pedagogical year 310. It's not a big jump, but it's an indicator, an indicator of some changes. I can't say and I don't want to say that next year's census will show the number we had until the Homeland War, not for sure and not for years, not for us, but in many environments. However, some things are changing. It also changes that at our employment office there used to be about 380 unemployed and even more, there are fewer than 150 of them today. Some companies that have shown interest in building their plants in Drnis are thinking primarily about who will be able to work for them in these facilities, and they are already taking employees from neighboring cities. So, some of the processes are unstoppable, whether they're going to come overnight positive, but in a projection of 10 to 15 years, I believe that we're going to exceed the pre-war number.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19636	Thank you very much. Now you really don't have any more replicas, but Mr. Bulj has the final word regarding this law, this decision I'm sorry, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19637	Thank you very much. What to say, on this list we see that now there will be Zagreb and the counties that are founders of it, the surrounding counties as well as the Republic of Croatia, but again again I repeat that 2/3, I do not agree here with my colleague Begonj that everything blooms in the Dalmatian region in the most beautiful area of Krka to Neretva, when I talk about it then about the Drinska end, Kninsko, Sinjsko, Cetinsko end, Vrgorjek, iototski end, and that there have been numerous turbulence because of what has been forgotten by the government of the Republic of Croatia. And you are, you know it well and your fellow citizens know it well. And that's why I asked you how many inhabitants the city of Drnish has. Why? It would simply be seen what the area as well as the entire area of Like and Gorski kotar fell on because the potentials and resources that are the most beautiful, not only the tourist potential that we have because of the proximity of the coast, not only but the energy potential, our potential nature park, here is the list here Krka. How do we take care of her? What about the lagoons in China who, behind every rain, comes to Krka National Park, this magut of fuel, oil, oil derivatives come to themselves, we don't care about it well enough. In addition to the fact that the Minister of Environmental Threatly appoints members as key places that have an il HNS or HNS card at the same time must have this and HDZ at the same time. I repeat again, all the projects I've given, not just for my blockage, I'm sorry that my colleague Begonja didn't support, say, the fast road project documentation, the start of construction for Drnis and Knin, which would mean a lot of a merger on the highway, and these are promises that I've written from the county elections promised by your mayor, nothing I've invented new, that it's now something of mine. But when my colleague says I'm a populist, was I a populist in declaring the exclusive economic belt that I defended here and twice gave to a parliament that is our right to international law? On the side of budget revenues, Croatia would also have in its budget that local self-government and state budget would have revenues. Now, all of a sudden after 10 years of Prime Minister Mira Bulja warning us, we even had a thematic session in Sibenik, in all the county coastal, coastal, all the counties, from Split-Dalmatia, Zadar, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, all the counties, no one supported the declaratory support of this proposal to declare an exclusive economic belt, and now the proposal is in the process, and the last term was two times you refused to do so. I was a populist. Why was I a populist? Why was I a populist here? I'm asking you colleagues. Why? Because you have to be courteous and decide. Decision-making on things you don't have the courage to do because you were under the skin of Tajani and the team, you had to be obedient, and the exclusive economic belt had to be declared long ago and it always conditionaled on Croatia, and Carla Del Ponte has to arrest the generals because you don't have an exclusive economic belt. The habit of some kind of advocacy, even the foundations of the state almost destroyed us with that statement to arrest, locate, transfer, process from a man who now manages and who has put together the last government by the majority, Vladimir Seks, who brought along Mesic and a man no longer known in HDZ, is Ivo Sanader. Nobody knows him anymore. Neither his ministers nor his secretary of state, no one knows him anymore. Well, at least be dignified and visit the man, if you don't want me to go, so I'm going to ask him to, I'm going to visit the man no matter what I've had a lot of problems with back then. I'll go visit the man. And it's not populism, warning, proposing and fighting for certain things, it's not populism, it's trying to push these projects into that area that will never be prescribed to Mir Bulju, ever. If the executive power does so, let it build these projects and be freely painted, and not every election to throw stone foundations and pave the way for houses to see election cycles, now the mechanism will start to repeat and blacken up a little bit, and the election cycles of each election will be seen a little bit of asphalt. And that's the whole story. That's how this list is now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19638	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19639	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Article 238, Mr. Bulj was completely off topic for the first time, and the second one doesn't know how to behave in the assembly, keeps telling the truth. He says he's been talking about IGP for 10 years. We've known him here for about five years. Then he said that we introduced this decision here City of Zagreb and two counties which is not true we introduced a fund that covers that space to resolve it to happen as well as rebuilding the city of Vukovar against which they are probably against. So I just think he deserved a good reminder since he wasn't talking about the subject at all. He was, he was talking about populistism about what he really is. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19640	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19641	Mr. Boric injured Article 238, exuding absolutely every word of my word, imposing what I discussed as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since Boris was State Secretary during Ivo Sanader at the time, then Minister Kalmeti probably knows everything about the exclusive economic belt, traffic, tunnels, paints, so this time I withdraw my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19642	Thank you very much. Both of you went off topic, but we're going to move on because now we're going to hear Mrs. Sanja Bosnjak's closing statement, the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19643	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to thank all the honourable MPs and MPs for their constructive discussion, for their suggestions, for their interest in this topic. In conclusion, the update of the last decision was in 2015, of which it has been a really long time since new legal entities have emerged, some have fallen short of the list for the reasons already mentioned. However, all of these are legal institutions that are either the founder of the Republic of Croatia or are the founder of some of the resolution ministries or founder of the county, some of the city. This is not plotted, embedded in communication with the resolution ministries, and certainly some other valuable institutions can be placed on this list. I believe that you will discuss many of their work reports when they are here at the assembly and that you will be able to support them and again some constructive criticism. The basis is to make this decision of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, which I also pointed out at the very beginning and preamble of this decision, and I could say, in conclusion, that the City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund and those counties continue to be the basis of the law adopted in these parliamentary benches. On us, or at the headship of the fund, on officials involved in the work of the future fund, it is precisely a great task to spend all the funds that we have at our disposal from the EU precisely for, purposefully and precisely in this area of earthquake recovery. Officials involved in the work of these institutions shall implement the programme and the Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme and the policies adopted among other things and in this assembly, and I propose, as I said, at the very beginning of adoption of this point when it is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19644	Stay here, stay if you want to, of course. Yes, if you like. Mr. Pavić was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19645	Excuse me, I'd just like to ask you one question. You said that this list was last updated in 2015, the government's decision was to update the list of companies in 2018. Does this mean that these companies aren't in that list, is there nowhere we can find the final list on the Internet? And when we were preparing for this debate that list was updated, it was impossible to find. So there's a list that was written in 2010, then there's a decision by the Government in 2018, but if that list isn't updated with the 2018 companies, that means that the companies that are supposed to be inside are not inside, and they're extremely important to this country, that's one thing. The second question is mine which criterion was met by the Fund for the Reconstruction of Objects in the City of Zagreb and the County and the Krapina-Zagorje County that it entered the list Considering that there are criteria by which institutions enter [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on that list. [[- Intruder. Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19646	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19647	Thank you very much for your right, therefore this list, the proposal for this decision applies only to legal persons of state interest, companies and this decision is made in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest at the Croatian Parliament, and this second decision you asked about is therefore not the subject of the debate and is not the case for these companies in this decision. It is revised and updated and brought, brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Second question right now, I didn't bring my dry cleaners, so?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19648	The second question was...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19649	Let him repeat, let him repeat, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19650	... since there are conditions prescribed for legal persons to enter that list, which conditions satisfy this City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County that it entered that list with regard to the fact that there are criteria for entering that list?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19651	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19652	The City of Zagreb Reconstruction Fund, Krapinsko-Zagrebačka and Krapinsko-Zagorska and Zagreb County, was founded recently on the basis of the Law on the Reconstruction of the Area of Earthquake and therefore is of strategic importance and interest both for this area and for the City of Zagreb and for the whole of the Republic of Croatia and the Resord Ministry it as well as for the City of Zagreb. That's what makes the decision. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19653	Thank you, thank you very much. No more replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19654	Injury of the Rules of Procedure because I'm not being held accountable properly means 238, any one of them. So, ma'am, what I'm asking you to do is set criteria, and based on which...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-01-0.u19655	Okay, Mr. Pavić, I'm sorry, but it's a reminder because I think, no, you didn't say either, you didn't say a part of the Rules of Procedure, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica no, there's no connection. Let's move on. We close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met and tomorrow morning at 9:30 we continue with a set of tax laws, a cluster of tax laws. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 12.25 hours.
