ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183589	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with the work, today the first point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. No. 815 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Ivica Bosnjak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183590	Good morning, all of you, Mr. President, honourable MPs. The proposal to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support provides for a further increase in the amount of parental support for the category of employees and self-employed parents from the current 3991 kn to 5653 kn and from 120% to 170% of the budget base, respectively. Amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support are relevant in the national reform programme for 2019 and in this significant contribution and further increase for the most significant category of birth, employees and self-employed persons, which will ultimately increase with those amendments that took effect from 1 July 2017 to 5650 kuna for this category of employees and self-employed persons. I will mention, therefore, that those previous changes have come into effect, for the first time it is accessible to improve the status of parents of employees and all other categories after 10 years of age, and therefore we make this important to protect motherhood more adequately, but also to align family and private obligations of parents and therefore families more adequately and to allow better planning of their family life. Another significant change in the amendments to this law refers to a category that shortens the work experience needed to achieve the status of an employee and self-employed parent from 12 to 9 months. 18 to 12 months, respectively. with interruptions. This is extremely important for the category of young population that begin, therefore, enter the labour market, plan to make their family planning opportunities as adequate as possible, given in particular that the average birth time of the first child has drawn significantly closer to 29 years and that is when we observe over a period of 10 or 15 years there is a multi-annual increase, so this step I say for young people will have a special significance. The following changes therefore relate to the harmonisation of the law relating to the category of parental care, which is for the category of unemployed parents, farmers and those who make other incomes, which refers to the harmonisation of the exercise of their right if during the period of parental leave they are employed, so that they can transfer this right to other parents as far as existing provisions of the laws that have been in force since 2008. In particular, it means if an unemployed mother is hired to transfer her right to her father. And we have another category which is also a harmonisation which is provided that the employer does not grant consent at the request of workers for flexible use of parental and maternity leave rather than that, according to written notice within 30 days or so with a deadline of 30 days, delaying the application of that right resulting from this law in accordance with the business process. So I will repeat, and in accordance with the national reform programme, this represents one rounding and further improving the status of parents and for family planning, and in particular with the harmonisation of family and business life as I say, we have intervened secondly in the government's mandate, significantly increasing the amounts of this fee. So I ask that the proposals be accepted here are these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183591	I thank the Secretary of State. We have 7 replicas, first in line, dear colleague Chikotic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183592	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. What I would like to ask here is that the present official from the Ministry of Demography is because since the ministers at the presentation of this important law is when it is planned to adopt a strategy of demographic revitalisation since it has not yet been adopted and when you plan the other 99 measures of demographics that you announced in spring 2019 because this is just one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183593	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183594	So the strategy of demographic revitalisation is in the final phase, it is completed to say, goes into its procedure which we will believe to be adopted and will certainly be adopted after 14 years of a strategic document that puts the issue of demographic revitalisation into the focus of national interest and through the 100th measures that are only envisaged, will certainly represent one significant perspective that has already been launched in the term of this government by a number of measures that have been implemented after 10 and 20 years, so here this is today and the proposal of the Law on maternity and parental support, the coordination of family and business life that we have started with significant investment in preschool education in almost 450 kindergartens, extended kindergarten work and other projects that have already been finally and launched and which have already had their own expression in certain measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183595	Thank you. The second one's next, dear colleague Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183596	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, so in all of one media cacophony, when we're not talking about those important things, some things go under the radar, so what you're explaining today very clearly without any politicizing, actually measures that help young people, especially working and self-employed parents, when you're actually talking about... Bases that increase from 120% to 170% and to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From 3990 to 5650 kn. So this is one in a row of measures of what we're talking about is a normative plan of activity and what this government is actually doing because of demographic revitalization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Demography is a reform of all reforms, it is not an instant program but a process that takes place. So, all of what you're doing should be commended and not only that, so there's subsidisation of housing loans, but especially here, in the last tax reform when young people up to 25 years of age have been completely exempt from income taxes, they're up to 30 percent, so all of these measures help in [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] demographic revitalization. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Babic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183597	Here, answer me, would you? No, I don't. Then you, now it's your honorary colleague Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183598	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here, we hear the measures of demographic recovery and, of course, every shift like this is welcome and it certainly makes a small contribution. However, we cannot be surprised at the approach. So you're talking about something that will put national demographics into focus, so at the end of the term, you're about, the village's on fire, and you're fixing the door. I don't understand how you don't realize that Croatia disappears in a demographic sense and that all of this together won't make sense unless the approach changes from the foundation. This approach from the foundation cannot be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183599	You don't want an answer? No, I don't. Well, then, colleague Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183600	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I welcome these measures, and I certainly think this is one good thing, and I'm going to do a detailed analysis in my individual debate, but what I want to draw your attention to, I might think is in the budget projections when we're talking about 2021, 2022, I see that the same funds as this year, which makes it look like there may be no plan in the future for the full demining of fees for the other six months. Why am I saying that? I think it's precisely the women who work in the higher pay grade who decide more rarely on motherhood precisely because of that career, and I just think that because of that, if there's a complete breakdown of the fees that might encourage these women to decide on motherhood more and only I'm sorry, I think this is a very good measure, I'm going to talk about other things in an individual debate, but I think we should have a little more ambition and plan on gradually raising the fees even in the future, which is not seen from the budget projections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183601	Thank you. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183602	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In the 2021 projections, in 2022, 220 million kunas are projected to increase. At 2020 level, the amount of HRK 160,650,000. We, I say, have first joined the increase in basics and rights after 10 years for all categories of parents, and these changes have been specifically targeted by those who are employed and self-employed. I will say that today's 2020 projections, if compared to 2016, the total amount of maternity and parental benefits will be increased by 750 million kuna. With a billion 980 million kuna, so at 2 billion and 730 thousand kuna, and I think that's the best answer we're focused on improving our parent status, improving the status of young people, families who plan to have children, conditions. When I say year and year is average [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The number of children born increases. [[Intruder President: Thank you Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183603	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183604	... Thank you very much. [[Specially enabled.]] I also join other MPs who support all the steps in not only this demographic policy, but what makes life easier for parents. But what I'm interested in is when you will fulfill one of the ruling party's important programme promises, key parties in the coalition in power, and share parental benefits in the other 6 months of the child's life. I must admit that I failed to grasp that from your response to the replica of my colleague, Giujic, so my question to you, perhaps to specify, have you given it up or will you realize that promise and when?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183605	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183606	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. We have not given up on this issue, the government is certainly committed and here, in the future strategy of demographic revitalisation, it certainly represents one direction in which we want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183607	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183608	Thank you, Your Honor. I also welcome the 6th Amendment to the Law on maternity benefits. I find them useful and welcome. However, what remains to me as an unknown is why did these changes not take into account the possibility of transferring parental leave to third parties or grandparents, of course, in certain situations?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183609	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183610	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. In its basic provisions, the law provides for the possibility that a person who, by decision of the competent authority, is to be assigned to care and care so that he can exercise that right, so that that provision of the law exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183611	And the last line, dear colleague Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183612	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. As a parent, I would like to commend and absolutely support this increase in parental and maternity benefits, and I believe that they will further contribute to harmonising our parents' private and business lives, and also contribute to the increase in birthrights. This is the second raise of support in the government's mandate of around 40% and 5,654 kuna, respectively, and with these changes, we will be placed at the very top of the EU at the level of the support that I consider very important to be highlighted in all these debates today. But most of the time when we talk about fees and support, we must not forget that fathers have the opportunity to use this right and would certainly like to see more fathers who use parental leave. I think only about 2% of fathers use their rights and stay with the child at home while the mother works and hope that there will be as many such brave fathers in the future. And so I'm wondering how we're going to further stimulate our fathers to stay at home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183613	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183614	Thank you for asking, Your Honor. These changes and raising the limit to 5,650 kuna are now expected to further encourage the more adequate use of that right between parents and fathers and their inclusion in a higher percentage of the application of that right. Of course, the aim of amending the law is also to bring family business life into line, but the greater involvement of women in the labour market is precisely that in the application of these rights that would be used by the takenover fathers to open this perspective for their division of parental responsibilities to be more pronounced. And as a basic prerequisite, it's just to raise this limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183615	My colleague Misic called, and I saw him, so my colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183616	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I had already answered, but I can say these incentives for parents can freely say that they are positive and that the government is working on it, but I think it's quite late, clicked on time to raise a certain standard of parents and encourage mothers to give birth. We know that the mass of Croats has moved out, that children are born a lot abroad, not in Croatia. And why is that? We all know that over the past 20 years we haven't taken care of it, we've taken care of some other things, we haven't actually taken care of it, now the budget's stabilized, and then I can single out the funds and consider myself good, but with a lot, a lot of delays. This must, of course, be commended, but we must be aware of what has happened and why we have not previously done and made a legal state far earlier in order for everyone to pay taxes and for the budget to be balanced and to have a situation like this or a similar situation long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183617	Thank you. There's no answer. So now I'm calling the committee's reporters if they want to take the floor? No, then we move on to the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a respected counterpart of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183618	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I must commend this measure. This is okay, so we're going to raise a little maternity and parental support or compensation and I'm going to say that this government had a few measures that were fine, but we still have some rough facts, and I'm going to introduce you to them, even at the beginning I'd say that this measure is like trying to put that composition of that train that's sliding into some kind of ambis or debauchery to stop with putting little stones under the wheels. You can't, so you can only stop that train in a way that will pull that train, that composition in another direction. What the citizens of Croatia already know but are not pronounced from this pay phone, I will now explicitly say, Croatia had 4 million 784 thousand in 1991, in 2011 it had 4 million 284 thousand and exactly half a million less. The assessment of the 2018 DSZ is 4 million 87 thousand, the actual figure is much smaller, if we count for another year and a half, so here we are, I will officially announce from this pay phone the fall after decades and decades for the first time under 4 million. Croatia lost 20% of its population. And now a little bit, the figures there are inexorable state secretaries, so it really looks like this, in 2015, in Croatia, I'm going to round up 37,000 children, something about 54, 2015 died. 37:51, 2017. 36:53, 2018. 36,915, but deceased 52,706. Let me explain, we had a cut minus 15,761 people living exclusively thanks to a natural decline. I'll repeat 15,671 people. That number actually increased in the term of office of this government because we had 2016. 14.005, 2017 about 16,000, today it was 15 last year that number was held about at this level, with those who knew about demographics if you have a total of fewer people, and we have, so we had 4 million 300 thousand, now we have 4 million, and we have the same drop means that the situation is even worse because we have an equal drop in a smaller number of people. That seems to you, those who do a little demographic work, that drop is minus 3.9%, almost minus 4% of the annual natural decline. Now that is not all, we also have the mechanical movement of the population or migration, or in a specific case of Croatian emigration, which is about this much more a year for you. So, with this natural movement, we have a mechanical loss of population, and that's your last year, we don't actually have an exact figure. Good migration is such that someone goes away and comes back like this, but that minus or negative migration balance is probably somewhere on this one at an annual level above 30,000 people. So we lose as mechanically, as naturally minimally 50,000 residents per year, minimum 50,000 inhabitants per year. And now that we're talking about this, so be careful this is a key Croatia resort and I'm sorry that the minister is not here, so the most important Croatian resort in which Andrej Plenkovic was sworn during the election campaign has suffered a disaster, and there is no minister here to defend this. In fact, the minister is not a demographic, she's a sociologist if I'm not wrong, we had a, or a pedagogue first, I don't know, we had a educator now we have a sociologist or it doesn't matter that much now. So in the most important ministry, the minister is not the minister of the profession. It's like we don't know the auto mechanic at the health department, for example. With all due respect to auto mechanics, or to put a historian in the Ministry of Finance, here's an excellent example, here's a great example. And then we're surprised that we're disappearing. Let's move on a little bit, you know this information I'm guessing, you should know. Of the 556 units of local self-government, 449 have fallen, a natural decline in population. With 105 being over 15% in seven years. My Sibenik belongs in that category. My Sibenik has lost since '91. more than 25% of the population as well as Croatia. The river is more, the river is 30%. I won't even talk about Slavonia. I just spoke to my colleague Culei. His village is empty. And then at the end of the years and years, four years, 3.5 years, so the term of office of Andrej Plenkovic is we have one demographic measure, and the situation is more catastrophic. Now, you know the thing, because first you in the ministry have absolutely no connection to demographics, that's the first thing, and the second thing you think is that it can only be solved by financial measures. Now, to get rid of this, that's what I'm always talking about to our Prime Minister, and I'll tell you the Minister, we need a catharsis of society that's worth rebuilding. Well, then, if we do it, then we'll have a demographic recovery. If you give your mother 500 kuna more, what do you think you've done? Well, the cost of living was 1,000 kunas higher in this period. On the other hand, I would make it up to each of you who invented this measure I would say to him, "Let's try to live with 4,000 kunas a month and have 5-3 children or 2 times 4,000 kuna let your husband have so much at some mall." So, I'm going to conclude these measures that you're doing are actually funny because the economic impact may be exclusively on the poorest ones, most importantly, means that the lowest economic group, something that actually contributes to them, but they are the right measures that you should take, and it is about changing the way you think first in the ministry, and then the whole government, and that it reflects on our country of Croatia, and there is no such thing. So I'm going to conclude that you, as far as demographics are concerned, have done one big nothing, that you have no connection and that you have been demographically back three more years in the demographic sense of our country in the most important sense, in the most important portfolio, and that is the portfolio of demographics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183619	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183620	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I will speak on behalf of the MOST Club on the subject of amending the Law on Parental, Parental and Parental Support. In fact, there was much to be expected from this government at first. It is pompous to announce that we will have demographic measures, that a strategy of demographic revitalisation will be made if, as the esteemed secretary of state has said from that strategy, it is only in the drafts and it will only be referred to public consultation. In the spring of 2019, just before the EU elections, 100 demographic measures were discussed, of these 100 demographic measures, they had not yet seen the light of day. What we've seen is subsidized loans that have led to property market disturbances, huge housing prices, those subsidized loans that can be used again by only those who are permanently employed, only those who are creditworthy, are only available to them with these subsidies. The others simply remain without it and what they are left with are large rentals that simply with the salaries that are in the real sector are impossible to say and settle for young families. The fact is that young people continue to mean more and more in colleges, so longer is their period of education, and when they come to the labour market they need to get a contract on an indefinite or permanent job to start their family. But that's not happening. It doesn't happen because they simply don't have that contract indefinitely, their properties are inaccessible, they don't have the opportunities that policies should actually give out clearly. I welcome this increase to 5,600 kuna and that's fine. So the direction we're going in is fine, but two years ago, I haven't said it, but because I'm not a profession, I'm a mother, I'm a woman, and I know what problems they're facing, so both mothers and women and the labour market and as far as family is concerned. One demographic said and an expert who was a member of your government went and said this is all folklore, so I would start this exhibition of yours about these birth and parental support, so this is all folklore. After four years, you promise a strategy that has not yet been seen in public consultation, you promise some more powerful 100 measures that you used in pre-election campaigns, and even now here, the year of elections is coming, and now something should change, something to increase, just so that something is said that you've been doing. I'd like to make sure that actually demographic revitalisation can't happen as long as women don't have an equal position on the labour market. The demographic strategy should certainly include changes to the labour of certain laws relating to women. Today, women are protected only 15 days after returning from maternity leave or parental leave. And in a lot of cases, women come to me and say, "Here I am, I am declared a technological surplus." I've received several messages like that in the last few days. Women's equality is therefore crucial to demographic renewal and this is exactly what MOST of independent lists has proposed and proposed a legislative proposal. What's evident from this is that you don't raise a minimum fee or support for women, that fee remains at 2328 kn. We propose in our law that this minimum fee be 3991 kn for every woman who means bringing a child’s birth certificate or parents when mandatory maternity leave expires. So let's cancel those who take requests, cancel those who write certificates, cancel all that great administration and red tape and reroute the money, digitize the process and increase the birth benefits. So for the first year of a child's life to make that minimum fee of £3991, that's why MOST advocates independent lists, because in this way at least that woman who is unable to find a job, unable to realize herself at the moment when she finished schooling and has concluded a marriage partnership or lives in a partner relationship, she actually has one chance to start her family and devote herself to calling her mother. The lawyer's report on gender equality suggests that the biggest obstacle to women today's labour market other than their age is the decision on motherhood. Women use much more maternity and parental leave and 0.44% of their fathers benefit from maternity leave and only about 2% of their fathers benefit from parental leave. So everything, the burden of the family, the demographics have fallen on women and we're not improving their status means they're as equal as they are on the labour market and to be economically safe and we're not actually improving their status in all other aspects. The rights of women who give birth and the rights of their children, you know what they depend on? A community or a city where those children were born. On a fifth - child island, you will receive 170 000 kuna and in some poor Slavonian municipality, you will be asked if you will receive 1000 or 2000 kuna. What does that mean? It means there's no strategy. This government should have given a clear document, a clear guideline in which a child who actually becomes a resident, that his rights do not depend on where the municipality or city is born and this is the case today. Your amendments to the Children's Compensation Act, 199, 249 and 299 kn. It's demographic revitalization. So you must have per household member 534 kn, means one member of the household to claim the right to a children's allowance of 299 kuna. Which means, say, a family where the mother works for 2,000 kn for half the time, and a father who works for a salary of 3,000 kn, they simply don't meet that condition. So they have the right to that minimum children's allowance and that's demographic revitalization. As for our Law on maternity and parental support, we have proposed and in the second reading when this law comes, we will give amendments in that direction. The minimum monthly fee for the first year of a child's life should be 3991 and with all other women, their full salary. The number of users to whom a parent can transfer his or her maternity leave must also be extended. I'm talking about grandparents, and that's why they need to get paid during parental leave, it's 2328 kuna. So grandparents who use maternity leave or parental leave need a fee of 2328 kuna. Also, women who return after the first year of a child's life n their job and have given birth to either twins or have a third child so they have the right to another 2 years of parental leave, to allow them to use their fee of 2328 kn in the form of monthly assistance, because many women, women with average salary and say, we have born, we have a third child, I have returned to my job and simply 2328 kn, I don't have enough to stay until the third year of a child's life and these women return to their jobs, let's say they work for some average salary of 5500 kuna. They simply cannot live off that fee of 2328 kuna and say the legislator has made it until the eighth year that she can return to parental leave for a minimum duration of a month but they cannot because of other costs. That's why we want these women not to leave untapped their right but to either pass it on to their grandmother or grandfather who will help them raise their children or get monthly help in 2328 kuna, so that, well, they wouldn't be left untapped because they're numerous women, and the ministry I've been looking for this crucial information about how many women who haven't actually used that right, they don't have that information. They don't record it. So I think that the established demographic policy should be aimed at improving the position of women in the labour market, improving the overall position of women in society in order to actually encourage them to motherhood. Women should have other things, but it is certainly not subsidized loans that have caused such a collapse on the real estate market that today few who can afford not the price of squares of the apartment, but the price means monthly rent. As far as this draft is concerned, we welcome the proposal to reduce it means the duration of mandatory insurance from 12 months to 9 months and from 18 months to 12 months in 2 years, but also, I'm saying again, we're going to pay someone who's going to record how many women have collected a job internship, we're going to pay someone who's going to register, that woman's going to have to bring those certificates, and we're going to pay for red tape and administration. Why do we put that under.../incomprehensible/...? Why don't we point the money where it's needed? As far as locals are concerned, we today have unequal prices for kindergartens. For example, in one town of Vinkovci, the kindergarten costs 860 or 880 kuna, and in the town of Zagreb, it is 600 kuna. Until some time ago, and on the Most initiative in the town of Split, kindergarten was not available to all citizens equally. Many families, although they met all the criteria that they had, to enroll a child in kindergarten, they simply didn't, they didn't have enough capacity, so city kindergartens. And so it happened that parents who have low wages and meet all the criteria were forced to pay the price of private kindergartens of 1200 kuna. MOST of Independent Lists has proposed a thematic session in the town of Split, a series of meetings were held and today the price of kindergarten in the town of Split is 495 kn, meaning for all citizens. Now imagine 555 units of local self-government and in each of them is a different price of kindergarten. Everything that disappears is actually this document, a key document of revitalisation of Croatia, and if it is a question of all the issues of demographics, then there can be no problem with money. If the state has an army, if there are police, if it invests in education, if priorities have to be identified, one of these priorities should certainly be that demographic revitalisation. The MOST Club will support the first reading of this amendment even though we believe, as the one who knows it said, and the expert was for the demographics you appointed to your government that it was an ordinary folklore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183621	It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected colleague Zeljka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183622	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Secretary of State, with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a Law on Birth and Parent Support, and I would like to point out on this occasion that this is one of the measures for the protection of motherhood, the care of the newborn child and the coordination of family and business life. What should be recalled is that the Republic of Croatia has defined constitutional provisions for the protection of motherhood, children and youth and the creation of social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions promoting the rights to a dignified life. Accordingly, maternity and parental support is intended to meet the child’s need for care and care, and it also enables their parents to spend quality time in the care and care of their children, and we can also say that this measure aims to ensure social security. On several occasions, it has been mentioned here today that birth benefits, or parental fees, are being raised in this government on 2 occasions. I'll just remind you that for more than 10 years that didn't seem to happen and it's probably one of the reasons we're currently in this position. I would like to remind you that in July 2017, we raised parental support from the previous €2600 to €3990 for employed parents and for unemployed parents at €2328. It should be noted that this is the second increase in parental support to 170% of the budget base for employed and self-employed parents, which would currently amount to 5650 kn. In any case, I would like to commend and commend, not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of my colleagues from the HDZ Club, this measure. Of course, we are all aware that this increase will include one part of our users or users, but of course at this point we will not include everything, but I believe and hope that in the coming years the support will continue to increase as well as our demographic trends. But while these measures try to strengthen the family in raising children, we know that the quality of life and living standards are affected by parenting costs. From labour market participation, which we also heard during these exhibitions, during the use of maternity and parental leave until the difficult return to the labour market. But also, the greater the risk of losing a job. I can fully agree here with my colleagues that a woman's position on the labour market must be strengthened and I think it's something that we'll all agree on and that we won't share in the ruling and opposition. I'm talking about the mother here, the woman, because they're traditionally mothers who will raise children and who will take care of the child. According to statistics in the Republic of Croatia, maternity leave is used by an extremely small number of fathers, almost 200 fathers are recorded in 2017, i.e. a slight decline in 2018. As far as parental leave is concerned, the number of fathers who use it in mild growth. In 2000, around 3400 fathers used them in 2018. The reasons are most often that our fathers have a higher salary than their mother, and we are part of a conservative society and of course the traditional role of women in our society who primarily care for children, care for the elderly and care for the powerless. Therefore, an increase in parental compensation, I believe, will also encourage greater involvement of our fathers because we must be aware that quality growth and child development are not only important for the mother but also for the father. But if we look at other countries, we will see that they too have more developed than we do that they have similar problems. So only one measure will not make us solve our problems, but in the Ministry of Demography there is another series of measures that are trying to solve our current situation. If we mention Sweden and we admire them that the number of fathers who use leave, parental leave is even more than 20%, it is truly commendable, and I believe that we will go slowly and in this direction, especially because I believe that we all know that the implementation of the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 20 June 2019 will follow, because that would balance the family and business lives of the woman herself. Personally, I believe that we can achieve greater equality between mothers and fathers in the care of a child at the earliest age, which is extremely important. What we will certainly praise as a HDZ club, which is that the duration of previous insurance of an employed or self-employed parent is changing which is a condition for the exercise of this right because the duration of previous insurance has now been reduced to 9 months instead of 12 months of continuous work, or 12 months with interruptions in the last two years. And at the end of this presentation, HDZ will support this bill. We consider it encouraging at this point for young parents and all those who will become future parents, but we also believe that we will continue to invest in our young people, that we will invest in our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183623	We are going to GLAS's club and respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183624	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So here is the law on parental support, or the Law on maternity and parental support, in the first reading. On behalf of the Glas Club, I'd say we have nothing against the proposed changes, though. The increase in compensation goes in some direction for this country to finally become civilised according to certain needs and rights that families have, especially the parents of children, who unfortunately we have insufficiently in the Republic of Croatia. Indicators are more than bad and any measure or any changes to the law that goes in some intended direction to improve the status of parents, and also families or children should go in some way towards normalising the overall society and some new tendencies let's hope for improvements in the overall demographic situation. At first, however, I will say that this law dealt in fact with almost exclusively numerical indicators or was engaged in an increase in compensation. In fact, the whole of Europe, not to say the world, except for some countries, is particularly developed world in demographic problems, Europe in particular, Croatia is no exception, although, by many indicators, it is, of course, one of the leading problems with demographic indicators, but everyone has even the most developed ones. Thus, with the highest economic standard, but also with the country's largest social standard in Europe, which they also have, they also face similar indicators, such as the same indicators, poor demographic indicators. So it's not just a question of how much financial support you're going to provide to parents or mothers to realize the ultimate goal, which is that you have a better demographic picture. Prices of a series of research have been made and in these European countries that have very high economic and social standards, they have shown that the country's simple and large initiative means through funding, co-financing of various programmes has not been adequately achieved. Our view is also that with this measure proposed here in 2020. means in the election year, somehow trying to send a message that this government is taking special care of demographic, demographic policy, but it would be convenient here to have, say, information as to how much the previous government's decision means in 2017. which has also increased these fees, this fee, as far as it has had its effect on the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia, means that there is still a 2nd year past, whether anything can be said to have been made, I think the answer would have been such that there is no shift because the latest data that we have is not talking about that there is some direct link between that how much compensation is made in relation to the number of newborn children, the increase in the number of inhabitants in the Republic, means we have a deeper and structural problem of society that we will not solve, although I say we welcome that we are more normally looking at this problem and that we will not argue here about how much money is needed, but that it is important that we have to secure as much money as is necessary for the introduction of a standard that is minimum of such fees, and that we share if certain families or mothers have incomes, or fathers have salaries that are above these, or that are above, this limit that government that we propose. I don't think there's that much in the Republic of Croatia, I think there could be as much data as there are women, mothers at this point who have significantly higher salaries, net wages of £5.5 or 6.000,00, and that with high expertise. Unfortunately, I don't think there's a lot of them except maybe that some really small layer of women who are in manager status and leading someone anywhere in, on the labour market, so not even financially, that de-mining probably wouldn't be some kind of excessive blow because it's already this 5.600,00 kn that's proposed somewhere at the average income level, the average salary in the Republic, something a little less, but that's what we're getting closer to, and that's what we're doing, that we're getting close to at least to that average salary, but those women who are in that one by me very narrow layer that's got a lot more income than what's going to do here, which is really, they really need to be able to deminate, or to receive those other 6 months of pay that which they would otherwise be in a working relationship. But it's something that we obviously can't expect from this government, they, they don't seem to care too much, it's a very small layer, it's, it's women that are most likely not, are not mostly sympathisers of the ruling right now so they're less concerned about it, but again we won't be against, to bring this up, this increase. What we're going to draw attention to and what we think we should have, and it's not covered by this law, and there was time. Namely, 20 June 2019. A new European directive has just been adopted on this issue which seeks to encourage the equal participation of both parents in child rearing at these earliest stages, meaning after the birth of a child or related to this parental leave, it was in our view that the proposal should be classified, means that we should comply in this bill, it would be a certain content not only quantitative but also a substantial shift in the law where we would include both the father and the father in a way that his maternity leave would be mandatory and, in that sense, both mother and father are fully equal, which now in the bill of law is an option, and it is not an obligation or not in the proposal, but in law is this option, and it is not an obligation, so we think that there may still be no time for the Secretary of State to include it. In addition, both fellow advocates and representatives' clubs have proposed laws in this justice, so where both father and mother treat each other equally in terms of obligations and responsibilities towards children, I think it may have been time for these proposals to be considered and included in this bill if you were not already ready to accept opposition proposals because these are materially good proposals that go exactly in the direction we would like the law to go, to go laws, all the laws that we propose, and which have to do with our goal of making the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia better, much better than what it means now is that we are going to make a better, better quality environment for those families, or for those young people who enter into marriage and who want to have children. Because you can't explain this demographic picture in Croatia with nothing but one feeling of young people that they're not safe enough here, that in Croatia there is no better perspective that they see for themselves to start a family and have more children. If that trend continues, and he is obviously present, and if we are passing laws, not only of this nature but of a whole series of other laws, and even of those laws that we sometimes seem to be not directly related to, with a demographic image or with demographic policies, we will not have, if we do not, we will not have a better situation. The better situation would be the situation in which we would not have had a decline in the population, and now unfortunately we have that and that is so bad that it says that this fall is going in the direction that in some way, if it continues with this trend, it goes in such a direction that in some not-so-long period, Croatia will actually come down to an extremely small, small state in terms of the number of people living in it, not to mention what the structure of those people who live will be. So it's going to be an old population, which, of course, for society as a whole, is a huge challenge and big problems. We will try, so we will still see until the second reading, in this reading we will support the law, we really hope that some of the things that are focused on in the public debate and in the assessment of the impact of this bill, and I say above all, will refer to this content part, which is equal parenting and responsibility to children, that some shifts will be made, so in the second reading, if it is not by the proposings, we will try to go with the amendments. Here, it means support for this current proposal. He, I think not, is not as big as he tries it or this proposal is not such a great contribution to a better demographic picture of Croatia as the ruling party is trying to show. I think it would be much more, much more important to see how the institutions work and what messages they send by ruling from the prime minister in situations where institutions that are competent, such as welfare centres, the police and everyone else don't do their jobs the way they should, so we're having situations that people take over in our hands of justice, that the uncertainty on the street has become, in fact, the security on the street, etc., I think that's something we need to work on, and key people in this country shouldn't be texting a guy, that's how it is when someone in the family gets into a fight with us the most normal thing. At every step from the top of the policy, we must have zero tolerance and violence, promote the security of our citizens, standards and economic and social appropriate times in which we live, and that will be the only policy that will fix the demographic picture of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183625	Let's move on, now it's the club of representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183626	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State is a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, short of metrics. Therefore, the most complex of these proposals increases the maximum wage fee from 3.991,20 kuna to 5,654,20 kuna during the use of parental leave for employed and self-employed parents. The most often translated thinks about it, think about it for craftsmen, I mean actually the only one. What does that mean? Therefore, we still have a proposal or a proposal to increase the maximum wage fee at the time of application of parental leave in case of death of a child is also again employed, unemployed. Changes in the conditions of the internship are also an important item for insurance, insurance for the exercise of rights. So 12 months ago there was a continuous working relationship, and now 9 or what was before in 2 years 18 is actually in 2 years enough that you were working with interruptions.../incomprehensible/... to say 12 months. And what you would also say about the transfer of rights to parental savings from work is determined in accordance with the working legal status of the user or whether or not both parents are employed. So, enough of one can be self-employed, the other can be employed and they can exercise that right. Here, that's the essence of these changes. I have not once said here that perhaps the best demographic policy is a good and quality economic policy, but not exclusively. Why? Same as this. So demographic policy must be a series of measures including these, so this isn't something that's going to explode in a demographic sense right now, but it's also an important wheel that could even be upgraded, so I'm going to suggest something later. Because if only economic policy and the state of a particular state were a prerequisite then we wouldn't have a situation with highly developed countries that also have a negative growth so-called. White plague like Japan, ageing populations, etc. So, first of all, one phenomenon that happens for other reasons and in the most developed countries, but we know where we are, it's important that we know where we want to be and how we get there. So I'm saying this is just one of the wheels, I'm not saying it's the most important, I'm not saying it's less important, but only one of those who should bring this demographic recovery, but not so much in the sense that we're talking about even numbers in terms of the born and the dead and how much labor we have, so that and all those newborn children who are no longer born actually in Croatia. What else is important to suggest? I would certainly like to see that between these two readings to be considered when we talk about these 6 months and leave and different models of dating to young people or parents in general. And that's to make it possible by the example that we had here in this house and that we brought in to enable mothers or fathers who use parental leave, working with that same vacation until half the time. Why? Not only because of the financial aspect, that they retain this fee and work part-time in their company or as a self-employed person, but also because of the professional fact that, unfortunately, in this society, mothers today do not decide on pregnancy or on parenting for professional reasons not to lag behind their colleagues, until they meet certain conditions, etc., etc. And it all goes on and on and on and on and on into the world of motherhood and fatherhood. So then let's check how much they actually benefit from these other 6 months, especially those who have a significant wage reduction, so far it's 3,900 and something kuna 3.991, and someone who has a salary of 10,000 kuna or 15,000 that's significantly less, so that's the financial aspect first to absorb. So we allow him to go to his employer to work part-time and stay on leave for those six months, and the other reason is professional, breaking out of work and potential opportunities, not to talk about what God doesn't give to situations that unfortunately happen, when employers calculate whether, when it's necessary to hire someone whether a younger woman who's just going to have a baby or maybe already has children, so maybe they're younger children so they're going to have a lot of pain, etc., unfortunately that's happening. We'd be a little bit adjudicated with this. So, I don't think that this country would cost anything, not that I think, but for sure, an employer would have the ability to pay half the wages for half the pay, and some of the contributions to that, and I think that whoever wants it would be very important to leave the parents with the children, especially mothers as long as possible, as much as possible and thus encourage that demographic aspect which is the purpose of this whole thing, but also the right to professional development, the completion of every parent. And another thing that is not directly related to this law or matter, or this ministry, but it is indirect to think about exactly how we would get to these calculations, because you can't be asked by the employer whether you're married, married, whether you have children or not, but it's quite important to them this way in employment, unfortunately, to say every employer is entitled to tax relief for every employee or employee who becomes a parent or even remains pregnant. During this period in which, whether he is on maternity leave, whether he is on parental leave or maternity leave, it would be still as an incentive measure, not as a negativity. Because that's what happens in society. Here are the concrete two things, one doesn't cost a country, the other through the kind of tax relief would cost something to see if it's possible as much as it would be, which would be tax relief, but both of them and the third and now what we're saying is all part of the same, the same stories as small wheels to make it as painless as possible from going to work on vacations and in fact, it also encourages and demographic restoration. So I'm saying, neither this nor anything else can be crucial, nor will anyone start giving birth to children because we're going to say that we're going to watch 50,000 kunas for every child. If we're just looking at it as a financial aspect, it won't. So I say again, it's not just financial reasons that are crucial because then more and more advanced countries would have, for me, a positive growth, and it's actually the other way around. Here, of course, the HNS Club will support these changes, and I would still like to think between the two readings and these proposals, at least these two, or this one that could be directly applied to this law, so that by the second reading we have a few more measures and to come up with what we want, which is a demographic renewal, it's a recognition of the same or greater rights of parents especially in relation to parental leave, not just financial leave, but all of these I've been saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183627	We now move to the discussion of SDSS's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183628	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-worker, excuse me. In view of the many years of unfavourable demographic indicators, we have approached as I have said to the six amendments to the Law on Birth and Parent Support. We at the Club of Representatives of the SDSS welcome every increase in the material rights of users of financial support during the use of parental leave and evaluate it as one of the important activities that we hope will encourage the use of parental leave by both parents, thus providing more quality and systematic support to families with newborn children. This is one measure that will contribute to raising the standard of living with children and especially families with small children and their right to a decent life through the achievement of social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions. The need to draw up a new law indicates a national reform programme for 2019, which provides for an increase in the amount of payment limits during the use of parental leave under the Law on maternity and parental support. The Government programme defines the need for direct and indirect measures of population policy to affect the increase of births with the long-term objective of balancing age structure and maintaining the population's spatial balance towards increasing the share of the younger population. One of the important objectives is to promote the growth of birth rate while ensuring a minimum and raising of the existing standard of living through the activities of population policy, which in this case include changes and an increase in compensation for the other 6 months. Parental law, parental leave, sorry. As part of the preparation of the 2030 National Strategy and the policy note drawn up by the World Bank for Demography, it is recommended to point out that the more adequate compensation for parental compensation that will be closest to the previously achieved salary is of paramount importance for the birth rate. Both for the greater involvement of women in the labour market and for the more active role of fathers in raising children. So these are already some instructions that the World Bank has already directed us in which direction we should go. I will take some of the European Parliament and Council's directives on the balance between the business and private life of parents and care providers. The directive therefore improves the harmonisation of the business and private sphere of life of EU citizens and citizens as well as the overall position of women in the labour market. The Directive prescribes a minimum that Member States must meet and provides for fathers to have 10 days of paid paternity leave at the birth of a child as well as 2 months. Unsustainable paid parental leave. The European Commission has recognised that more and more women are involved in paid employment, although they earn 18% less than men and at the same time women are still relatively often nurses and 78% of all care providers are women, and this raises a question of satisfactory balance between work and private life, which is why women often receive pensions that are just a little more than the minimum necessary for survival, which is why there are reasons from earlier and these are interruptions or termination of professional activity for family dedication, the frequency of half-life contracts or because they worked in the company of women mainly in the trade and agricultural sector without pay and without social insurance. This Directive also achieves a higher level of gender equality in society and better sharing of responsibilities between men and women, which should also have a positive impact on the reduction of the gender pay gap and pensions. The directive also aims to increase women's participation in the labour market and to achieve full potential and their financial independence. The Directive therefore enters into force at the end of April and the time limit for Member States to apply is 3 years. Labour and working time flexibility and the sustainable balance between professional and private life will be of increasing importance to all workers. These changes that we are talking about today are one step in the right direction but the impact on demographic change is complex and long-term and will require changes to several laws, sublegal acts and in general some practices in society. What we are about at this point in Europe is among the worst is the right to father's leave or the possibility of father using leave immediately after the child's birth is desirable for at least 15 days on HZZO's burden. This is what almost all European countries already have, and this is important because scientific research has shown just how important this holiday is and the opportunity to connect in the first days of the child's life. What surprised me and concerns this proposal to amend the Law on Birth and Parental Refunds is the fact that they did not take into account the counsel's suggestions for gender equality, even a few of these suggestions did not even find themselves in this proposal. One of those that I consider important and which I point out and I call for it to be considered is the possibility for persons who, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on maternity and parental assistance, have the status of farmers to be able to apply those rights which are made possible to employees or self-employed parents, by not entering into a specific case in assessing the definition of farmers, as well as the concept of an employee or self-employed person according to individual laws. So there are some illogicalities in determining the status of farmers or often colloktially called OPG, so here, I think it's a topic that we might be able to think about in the second reading. In any case, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support these changes and welcome any initiative aimed at increasing the material rights of parents from whom we expect positive influences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183629	We are now going to the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, a respected colleague, Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDS club, HSLS and HDSSB will, of course, support these amendments to the law because we think they are absolutely good, they are going in the right direction and that it is hardly anyone who could support it. These days in preparation and debates for this law I have also talked to some young parents, especially fathers, I will state here the position of one father for a young month and a half who said that it is absolutely a good move, that there is nothing to complain about, but that it would be very good that as soon as possible the EU directive is applied on 10 working days when the mother is born, when the child comes home that the father has that part of the freedom to be with the family, which she spoke to a colleague, here, as I hear from the ministry's representative that this is planned very quickly, in accordance with the Law on Labour and Amendments of this Law, so here, I call on and appeal that it is real as soon as possible and that we have this additional moment in improving the situation, improving the conditions for families, young families, young families, husbands and women who have children. It has already been said here that in the term of this government there has therefore been an increase with this now, with this proposal from somewhere even now about 3,000 kuna means maternity benefits and we can't say that it's not a good shift, we can't say it's not going in the right direction. This can only be criticised by villains, those who do purely narrow political interests want to degrade, insult any shift that is done by any positive thing being prepared. I am sorry that such things have not happened in the mandates of all previous governments. That they didn't happen in all these governments that they were, no matter what side they were on, but they weren't. They happen now, at the time of this government, at the time of this parliamentary majority. And that's a fact. Just like it happened to introduce free textbooks for elementary schools. And it's a newspaper and it's a demographic measure in any case, it helps this second step when children go to school and parents get a certain release and money aid, so to speak, from what they've had to pay so far. All these facts wanted me to accept it or not, but that's the way it is. What is certainly coming, and I believe that in this direction will go to the issue of resolving improvements and living conditions for young families, again, as I recently spoke in the cooperation of state and local policies. I'll repeat, the state and local level are one system of brain and capillaries, and that's how it has to work. We have a situation today that many local self-governments, both cities and municipalities have gifts for children, gifts for newborns, financial gifts, some have very large amounts, some have slightly less. There's no balance. And maybe it doesn't have to be the same for everyone. Let local self-government be determined as well as state policy whether it is in the interest to help and stimulate population growth, in the end, to get more young women and to get married, to have children, to have families. We have a situation and a different price of kindergartens, it's already here today, and the state can't handle these things. But local self-government must take part of responsibility to itself especially if we put the fact on the table that during this government, this parliamentary majority has come to a large fiscal decentralisation towards local self-government and that local self-government today has much more opportunities to subsidise the price of kindergartens in a much larger amount in order for parents to pay less for this same kindergarten. So that's a step behind this step when we talk about maternity benefits. All this together when it's summed up we can say that we're going in the right direction, that things have finally moved, that it's unfortunate that not all these years in front of these three last things have looked at each other and that they haven't been incentivized in this way. For these reasons, I would like to hear it with this wish, perhaps in some final address or answers, or in some discussion of the Ministry's representatives when they start to apply the EU Directive of 10 working days for a father when a woman is born, when a mother is born, we will, as I said, absolutely support the amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183631	Thank you. It is now up to the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats respected counterpart Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183632	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are in the HSS Club certainly find any improvement in the rights of parents during the use of maternity and parental leave and, of course, like the vast majority of parliamentary representatives, we will support this proposal to amend the law in the first reading. But we must certainly stress that these individual measures cannot lead to the desired results because they refer to only part of the problems that young couples in Croatia face when planning to increase their families. We need comprehensive measures in Croatia, we need serious measures to address demographic problems, we need serious procedures in labour legislation to make it easier for parents in society to improve the position of women on the labour market in order to improve the position of women in society. We must be very serious because demographics are the strategic issue of Croatia and we must admit that Croatia has suffered a demographic breakdown. A negative natural increase in the Republic of Croatia has 491 municipalities and a city of 555 local self-government, 491 municipalities and the city. According to research in nearly 6 counties, each municipality is extinct, meaning that in 6 of our districts there is no positive natural growth, that our population is falling, our population is getting older and young couples are becoming increasingly and more difficult to decide to have children. The well-known demographers in Croatia warn of this major problem, warn that Croatia is dying out and we need strategic planning regarding demographics in Croatia. The local environments that many MPs here mention are left to themselves that with certain measures they try to reverse the negative trend, so many local environments raise maternity benefits, co-finance or finance total kindergarten prices, co-finance the purchase of school supplies, school transport, also provide or want to raise health care standards in their local environments, but simply without the help of the state they cannot. Here you have also had the opportunity to see in the media these days that many local environments, even our great cities, are struggling with doctors, with pediatricians, with gynecologists in their environments, which, of course, leads to certain uncertainty and even giving up on spreading their family. These are very serious problems we have to deal with. These amendments to the law concern only an increase in a certain fee, which we certainly welcome, but this bill should have included a much wider spectrum, it should have taken care of the other group that has been abolished so far. This does not take care of pregnant women who are employed for a period of time, does not care about pregnant women who use care for their pregnancy, parents who use three years of parental leave, does not care about self-employed parents, parents with developmental disabilities. These are key problems that should have been addressed by this law and key problems that need to be addressed in order to improve the demographic picture of Croatia. We need to improve the rights of young people in the labour market and we need to solve a big problem, and that is work for a certain time. These are all insecuritys that create young couples who simply decide on fewer children and do not spread their families. Unfortunately, such laws, which look only closely at the increase of some financial compensation, will not fix the demographic image in Croatia. As I said by the HSS club probably the other parliamentary representatives, we will support this proposal because we support any and a small shift that goes towards improving the demographic image in Croatia, we will support it in the first reading, but certainly in the second that we will have our amendments and that we will expect the ruling ones to adopt them. It is true that these proposals were to be found in previous years on the parliamentary benches, but now the responsibility of this ruling structure is to be chosen by the citizens and they must be very serious when dealing with these problems, and these small shifts will certainly not solve the problem of demographicism in our country. We have a responsibility to the citizens who chose us, we have a responsibility to our children to be serious and to create a country where they want to live, a country where they feel safe and a country that cares for its citizens and cares for its future. If we don't do this, these small shifts certainly won't bring an increase in birth in our country and certainly won't go towards improving demographics in our area. I hope that in the second reading, that this law will be amended, that certain criticisms and proposals that come from both the field and the club representatives will be respected, and that in the second reading we will still get a law that will also take care of these groups that I have listed and which are not here at the moment and which certainly have their own problems where the state needs to intervene, where the state needs to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183633	Thank you, too. We have the students and students of Lucian Vranjanin High School from Zagreb with us, so please welcome them now. Thank you for coming to remind us, we are moving on with clubs, Mr Vlaho Orepić, the club of representatives of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics. [[Applause.]] There's a lot of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183634	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said by this intervention in the law on maternity and parental support, so I'm going to try it a little bit, what I predicted, talk, rationalize and say more about what was not spoken of. What is changed means Article 20, essence, Article 24(2), paragraphs 2, 5, 7, 2 and 5 and 7 is whether or not the remuneration is due for the first 6 months. So he says, from today's limit of 120% of the accounting base with 3991 kn and 20 lp goes to 170% of the budget base, i.e. 5664 kn and 20 lp. I welcome, however, a good trend, before any conclusion, is very important to mention a few things. You emphasized the secretary of state that this is part of the National Reform Programme. And I'm telling you right at the beginning that this law was never foreseen in the legislative plan for this year. Unbelievable. So we have a national reform plan, and this is the law we didn't foresee in the legislative plan at all. So it's not about any systematic work, and we can easily conclude that we just don't know where we're going. Secondly, I would like to point out that after a whole series of warnings that I have sent in this Visa House, the e-consultation process lasted 30 days, more precisely 29 days, because here, it is finally getting away from the shortening of this e-consumption, which means that it is possible for the interested and professional public to give their opinion. But what's the problem? During this e-consultation there were 21 comments, 21 proposals and all these proposals went towards this and said that this intervention in this law was not comprehensive and 20 proposals were rejected, incredible. So interested and professional public, 20 proposals have been rejected. You know for what reason? Because they are not subject to amendments and additions to this law or that they will go into the making of a new law that will cover and will be complete in relation to all the problems involved. So we are not already telling the truth because it is impossible for this year, which is also electoral, to pass a new law that is not at all foreseen in the legislative plan, as this amendment and supplement is not foreseen. Let's call her that. We're just going in the direction of some kind of verse, making laws in a way that we shouldn't pass laws. What I also want to welcome is that it happened and that's a statement, you've made a statement about the impact assessment of the regulations and now it should be related to every law that comes into this House, and it would be simpler for them to decide and everything. However, this part of the remarks I have made refers to the very process of passing the law. So in this part, it's only in this part of the context-free process that we see that it's non-planned activity, we see that it's an incomplete law and we see that it's not a full impact assessment in accordance with all the legislative tendencies or what's defined in the IA Act. How much we run from ourselves only in the process itself. Now I will also mention to the Directive the meaning of 1158/2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which was adopted on 26th of last year. This Directive refers to the balance between the business life and the private life of the parent and the care provider that entered into force on 30. Six last year. And now watch out, so the t directive obliges us as a state to implement national legislation is whether, we don't. We pass a law without it, and we know that within a year, the next government will warn us, or whatever comes, and that next government, whatever it is, will have to approach the new law. So please, just when we're doing this job, it welcomes raising the distribution of money to express this, but let's finish the job, let's do a whole job on this and not look back again. Because we will be careful next year or whoever is in the assembly next year will be doing the same thing again. Why? Because we did not include what we should have included, or did not comply with the provisions of the declaration, the declaration mentioned, and did not implement it in the national legislation between which this law is to be discussed. The next thing I want to point out, it is very important that in this period, since it is not, if you do not include, please include in the declaration or the provisions of this declaration, the population to which this law applies will be denied for the rights defined in that declaration. So we're damaging our citizens with, this way when we approach law-making. And at the end of the lawmaking and costing and time and money so that he invites you from this pay phone now that until the next reading we simply continue everything in our place to be a whole law, to cover everything we need to cover and that we can say all together, we did this job, put an end to this job. If we had done a quality impact assessment, we would have come to the conclusion that some colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned here, it means that this law is essentially not comprehensive, and as such it is and is unfair not dealing with all the groups that should be dealt with. Well, among other things, we can't treat a mother who has one child or what about twins, what about three or more children. The status of pregnant women is not resolved for a period of time, no one has mentioned the care of children with disabilities. These are all the problems that must simply be contained in this law, in order to be complete and to be fair ultimately, which should be the purpose. After all, when you type this name into the HZZO, changes from 2011, unscheduled, on the sites of HZZO. Let's change that and make it easier for people who want to see what they're entitled to and how to put themselves in this situation to at least get the information freshly updated to say so. Demographic measures, we can take these and such demographic measures as long as we want until we understand one simple thing, our citizens leave Croatia where the conditions as they rule and go to some third countries or other countries where some other conditions rule. So we need to imitate these countries in the organisational sense where our people go and, in this way, strive to arrange society. So we need this social convergence, the organisational convergence of the situation in which we are located according to the state in which our citizens are going. This also implies intervention in the rule of law and to the size of the state and regulatory efficiency and openness of the market, etc. This law, that is, this law-making approach, must simply be abandoned for all time. We need to make full impact assessments, the laws must be comprehensive, they have to answer the questions of life that we want to solve, not serve exclusively for pre-election purposes which can be concluded if they remain in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183635	Thank you, too. Mrs Sabina Vosovac will speak on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministry representatives, as a bomb echoed before 14, 20 days of information that as many as 13,000 women in Zadar were left without primary gynaecological protection. Also, 1,200 children were lost without a pediatrician. It is already said here in the debate that unfortunately every child in Croatia does not have the same access to preschool education and education, and even less so, their parents are evenly paying the price of kindergartens in certain areas, in different areas of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is, unfortunately, the old and powerless upstairs in certain homes for the old and powerless, that the Ministry of Social Care's inspection doesn't arrive on the ground to solve all the problems that now explode in our faces like some time bomb that's timed and ticked like that, it's been ticking and warning about danger for years. The fact is also that kindergarten working hours are often not adapted to parents who work and their working hours. That parents often don't know as much as they do with children for 1 to 2 hours when their kindergarten shift ends, and they just don't get to pick up their children because they're still working. Also, there is no living room in schools where children with their teachers, teachers could write homework, determine the material that they spend at home, spend as much quality time with their parents as possible. The fact is also that women on the labour market still enjoy an unfavourable position compared to men. Why am I saying all this, if this has anything to do with this subject, you'll be wondering? And the way it is, it's the most intelligent and it's demographic politics. Not to forget, anti-corruption policy is also an assumption of every intelligent but also of demographic policy. And it is not at all controversial, I do not think that in this Croatian Assembly there will be a single representative in this room who will be against or question such a measure and such a bill. I wish we'd given more. Why? Because at this point in the Republic of Croatia's budget is doing better than it was in previous years. And it's okay that on two occasions we've taken care of increasing the benefits during maternity and parental leave and against that I don't think anyone will have anything like all these previous 20 years when we talked about family policies, about various measures that need to improve the quality of family life and children, always this Croatian Parliament was unique about it and always became a consensus about it. That's how it's gonna be this time. The second is a couple of posts that the Dalmatians or others would say is the problem of how successful we have been in implementing certain measures and how successful we are in implementing certain policies. But all this stuff that I was just talking about were actually things to think about in the package and that's why the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Demography is public in front of the minister's eyes without telling her before, my people said, after a year, it seems to me that he was a secretary of state, so I don't want to participate in this, I have no face in this participation, this is not a serious approach to solving the problem, this is a farce and a public performance. All these measures are partial, they will help a certain part of the people but they are not systematic. Why aren't they systematic? Why am I saying they're not systematic? So they said here and some of the predecessors before me, in the plan of normative activities there is no plan to adopt a new Law on maternity and parental support that is very much needed and you recognize it yourself, this is kind of a fire measure, there is a single space, a budget space to go to an increase in parental benefits, which is fine, which is commendable and which is good, but a systematic increase or systematic plan of dissipating parental fees, there is no such thing. There is no plan for a new Law on Parental and Birth Refunds, nor in budget projections for 2021, in 2022 there are any shifts. What's the conclusion? This is maximum and this is a certain limit for mothers and fathers who use parental leave but this is also the government's limit. And that should be said, there's nothing wrong with that, but we're not going any further, at least not for the next two years, at least not from the relevant government documents that tell us that, and that's the plan of normative activities, legislative activities on the one hand, and the budgetary plan on the other. All right, we're where we are and that's okay. I said, the SDP will support, support all the measures that are intended to raise the standard of family with small children and consider any improvement in parental rights during the use of maternity and parental leave, as well as the issues that are being regulated by this draft, although the issues that are being arranged or the solutions that are offered are actually very narrow. You and through public consultation with the interested public have been clearly crystallised that the other groups of parents who are not employed or self-employed have not gone analoguely. In our last bill of law, at least that's what we had. We solved completely in the package, both unemployed and employed and self-employed. Here, as you are told in the public consultation and mentioned here in the debates, there are no unfortunately solutions for some, I will say so, this law-restricted group of pregnant women and parents, let's say those who are employed on or employed for a certain time, they use sick leave to preserve and safeguard pregnancy, women who have twins, who have two, three, meaning the birth of twins, the third or each of the following children who use that three-year parental leave. The issue of parents with higher incomes has also not been resolved here, because let's be realistic, there are families that do not, unfortunately, have economic, financial, socio-service conditions that would make it easier for them to parenting, so there is no such thing as, for example, have no stable incomes, have no solution how to solve a roof over their heads because we don't actually have a programme, we've lifted the tax relief for buying the first real estate. When we appealed here to build rental apartments for those who couldn't even buy apartments from the POS programme, we were told that we simply couldn't, Austria one has it, but that's why we see now, the head of APN is buying an apartment. How? He buys from POS's program, it's like 5 that weren't so attractive, that's right and the lists are always longer, demand is always higher than the offer, but he somehow ended up in a rental apartment option where you through payment where he actually through paying his rent he turned down and got the opportunity to buy it but it's obvious only for privileged ones. For these families that are struggling to create preconditions for family planning, we do not have solutions, we unfortunately do not offer solutions. Also, parents who have much higher incomes and even from these currently prescribed 5654 kn, that's not a small amount, so we're on our way, this government has gone well, the money now has, the state has started, it's okay to go and those who are full of this budget, people who need to be given something in return, and we've come from 2600 to 5654 kn, but there are still people in this country who, because of financial or some other circumstances don't plan a family, they don't want to have children or want to but they can't afford it, but they can't afford to have more children, there are also those who have all these preconditions and financial and certain other conditions but simply have a risky, business risk of leaving their own, I'll say it, jobs and go to a lot less compensation because there aren't a lot of such people in Croatia, but such men have such men, such men have. And that's what my colleagues Turina-Djuric said. It would be nice if we could talk numbers today. How many employees who have net incomes are larger, net incomes greater than these 5654 kn and how much would actually come out if we decided to share parental benefits for this parent pool which is actually one, I will not say, is not an incentive measure at all, but is actually a measure that may hold them back and prevents them from planning to start this home family or to increase the family. Someone mentioned here before me, of course there are self-employed parents who are also very little spoken of. Parents of children with developmental difficulties, single parents, single parents, mothers, and fathers. How's it going? It's hard where in families where both parents one works, two works, both don't work, it's very hard, and imagine what it's like for one parent. And this directive, even if it works, is very difficult for him. Organize and coordinate professional and private life. A particular emphasis is also put on the application here, and I will mention this, the implementation of the Balance Directive between the business and private life of parents and the care provider, given the entry into force of the Directive on the balance between the business and private life of parents and the care providers and the placing beyond the strength of Council Directive 2010/18/EU and you are now saying, the Ministry plans to access the adoption of new rules in the field of maternity and parental support under which all relevant proposals will be considered to propose appropriate legal solutions and to comply with the content and solutions in the area and the rights covered by the Directive. When? How? You don't have a plan for normative activities of the new law, this law doesn't solve it, and it doesn't see a simple end. And why am I bringing that up? I mention this and because you rejected, let's say, our proposal of the Law on Birth and Parent Support seems to me some year ago and a few days ago, which among other things provided solutions to some of these problems, so we have provided the possibility, and you have refused all of this, that in single-parent families the transfer can be transferred to the third person, grandmother or grandfather because there is no other parent, but that the person who actually helps support the child can take over certain rights. We have also proposed to you, and this is proposed to you through the public debate of the Rod Association, the introduction of only father's leave or father's spare in, from working for 14 days which are used during the period of mandatory maternity leave of the mother, i.e. maternity leave of the mother. That's what we're trying to do. Share responsible roles of parents, not just in growing up, but from the very beginning to the end. For a child to bear, to plan, and only to give birth to the first, I shall dare say, many women sick, but also difficult, but not the most difficult step. It's a lot harder when a child grows up. We also suggested that you use the right to work with half your full time until the age of 3. For a child without health problems in agreement with the employer and the right to a day off for prenatal examination as a right of both parents, there are other elements, and fellow Opačić was then on behalf of and proposings, legislators and later in discussions when you went to this first increase said that there are some things that simply don't cost the state much, that one day off when the child left, the start of primary school education, the first day of school, where we would do for parents a lot, and the country wouldn't cost much, or it wouldn't cost her anything. So here, I ask you, we will support this, and until the second reading try to stop this law somehow, or a little bit, and all of those problems that are facing are simply covered by legal solutions. Listen also to the Ombudsman’s recommendations for gender equality, which she gave in her work report in 2018, and here is good luck to you and happy with us until the second reading and in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183637	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Maria Puh who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183638	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today our law which we really consider a shift there, the shift goes well, the birth benefits increase to 5650 kn and definitely in front of the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club you have support in these changes. Demography is, I would say, the cancer of the wounds in Croatia and the cancer of our society and the situation in which we are today, unfortunately we cannot correct it and correct it with the decisions and with the solutions we make today. The decisions we were supposed to make to change something, we were supposed to make 10, 15 years ago, but, well, we're on our way, so hopefully in the future, some things will start to turn the other way. What my proposal is, and I've mentioned to the board and everywhere, is that we're going towards an increase in material resources, means at the birth of a child, but definitely in the future, if, there should be budgetary opportunities to go towards the demarcation of parental fees. I believe that such a move would definitely also be an incentive for women to decide to give birth because many women who have high incomes believe that many times and think a lot of things over and over before they decide that they will have a child and how many children will end up having it depends on it, and I believe that if these material benefits were greater to be safe and to a greater extent and the fathers decided to stay home with children, to raise that level a little bit if we weren't at such a low percentage as we have heard today about the fathers themselves. Today, as we have heard and what is related to the EU directive, I definitely do not know when the Labour Act is to be passed, but those minimum 10 days that after the birth of the child are home with the child and with my wife I think it would be very helpful because all research shows that the relationship between the family and the relationship between fathers and children is established if they are more with them and can be more dedicated to them. I watched the e-consultation and there were quite a lot of comments and I read the Ombudsman's comments about gender equality and counsellors for children and lawyers for people with disabilities, and there are also a lot of comments and social care centres. So I would once again appeal to you that until the second reading in these comments there are a lot of suggestions that I think may need to be respected and implemented in some way in this law, so that by the second reading we may possibly have some shifts in this matter, and I will retain the right to propose some amendments to this law by the Club of Labour and Solidarity Party. This move and this law that we are making today is, in fact, just one little cube in measures that we need to improve the demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it's not the beginning, it's already been the beginning we're starting with the opening of new kindergartens, the construction of new kindergartens, but it's all for me for now still just beginner and small steps that should be further upgraded. We really should have the same chances in the Republic of Croatia and the same opportunities. We always talk about Croatia equal opportunities and nobody can convince me that it will be easier to decide to have a child someone in a rural environment who does not know where they will go with the child after his senior year if there is no manger anywhere near his home or his workplace. Of course, in large areas such as Zagreb, Split, Osijek it is much easier, where kindergartens work in two shifts, but trust me in rural areas parents who do not have the support of their parents where there are no grandparents and services are very often in trouble where with a child and what to do after his completed year when they return to work or perhaps even more. So I definitely welcome this law, I welcome all the measures that have been done so far, but we have to keep working on me to say it even to regional development, to enable and infrastructure itself later for our children, and I have been looking at it a little lately, and I wonder just how often they are in all our kindergartens, whether they are founders of municipalities and towns or they are private kindergartens, how often those kindergartens go to education, how often they get to know new methods in which they work with children, unfortunately we see ourselves that peer violence is something that I would say epidemic proportions, so we don't really just need to build a kindergarten and that kindergarten to have done, but we need both human staff and human resources that will then work on ourselves to be as good and as possible to work with children. Well, I invite all kindergartens, and beyond that, of course, schools to work on their employees, to educate themselves, to participate in all seminars that are available to them so that they can do their job better and to jump to all the problems they face today in kindergartens and schools. Giving equal opportunities means, as I have already said, providing kindergartens and mangers, I think that one step that was also good and well accepted as regards children and providing free textbooks for primary schools, and I think that in such a way as children we must go to equalization throughout the Republic. Here, in this first reading we support these changes that the law proposes, I urge you once again to see in the comments, especially the commentary's commentary and the welfare center, so possibly in the second reading that we have some changes in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183639	We're moving on to individual debates. Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183640	Thank you very much. This change as a change, of course and pre-election year, but regardless of which any demographic measure is a good measure and this increase from 3.991 to 5.600 kuna for the other 6 months of parental leave is some shift. However, when we look at 2/3 of Croatia, of course we look at the developed part, but I will talk about the parts where the central government has forgotten, and the problems are also the counties that are absolutely or very little or very populist measures to take care of the decentralised funds they manage. I would just say that in the areas of rurally developed areas that the laws would trim essentially a basic demographic measure, and that was also a demographic strategy were people who gave that strategy to which the government itself was called Stramota, who was secretary of the ministry and said that basically everything that happens in Croatia is a small play, and in these games there is no permanent solution. When we talk about survival or return problems, it would be even better, if people were simply to see the measures badly from the fact that 6.6% of GDP per year is from the funds of those who send out money from abroad to their families, which is a terrible increase, so that's about 18 billion kunas of 6.6% of the GDP of the emigrants is not small and it's growing rapidly. Triba does everything and believes that these people will come back because for territory and the state without crazy is nothing. I would just say that when we look at health care alone, so in a whole undeveloped rural area regardless of what part of it was from Slavonia to Dalmatia, like, a mountain cotter, I'm just going to be an example of the Cetina landscape that has 3500 children with one pediatrician. Now imagine when people hear that they have three pediatricians, and these pediatricians who are already old and are going to retire a bit, and for the last ten years there has been no specialization at all. So we're getting into this one phase that in these rural areas parents won't have the possibility of even health care. However, the key problem in these areas is the underdeveloped workplace, which is the largest demographic measure. In order to have this demographic measure, we must have certain legal frameworks that will allow entrepreneurs to remain in these areas. to invest in infrastructure, but you remember here and I think this government didn't take any steps except what the PR law passed if you remember, the law on undeveloped areas and the Law on mountainous areas was passed last year, even before that means it's been a year and a half. Minister Žalac here spoke of the law being passed, but no rules. I mean, the funny ones were the financial frameworks that were given, but we have absolutely no regulations for those areas. As long as we don't allow entrepreneurs to have minimum taxes on certain times in these areas and if they have no interest in investing in these areas of the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia has no jobs until then, and if there are no jobs, there is no survival of people in those areas. And because of that we have a huge problem, it would be one of the essential measures. When we mention kindergartens here, some counties don't have as much as 40% of local administration units don't have the ability to afford a child's kindergarten for one. So we have to talk facts here and look at these facts. Did we withdraw funds from eu funds and build facilities as kindergartens, and in fact, if we do not respect what was adopted in 2000 in Barcelona, the European Council has brought one resolution where by 2020, 90% of children in the EU will have the possibility of kindergartens, not only as guardians of children but from 3 to 6 years of age, that every child has the possibility of kindergarten because it has been proven in scientific studies that 20% of children with the possibility of kindergarten have a higher ability to be highly educated. The rural areas are on the edge, meaning on the edge of these beautiful areas that should be inhabited. It is unthinkable for me that in these areas children are not able to have kindergartens, that parents cannot leave their children. So on this scale, no one will say anything wrong, but we at MOST have given and suggested that this fee be throughout the year as the first 6 months, so the whole set that Mrs. Cikotic said so that I would not now repeat everything she said on behalf of the MOST Club, but MOST's bill of law is indicative. However, if we only give laws such as was or what is an example of the measures given by the Zagreb mayor about the mothers of the breeders, so this changes, so it is ahead of the elections, so this is still a pre-election year, regardless of this measure gives some kind of shift. But it's a drop in the sea of a much broader context, it needs to be a strategy and it can't just be solved by the ministry, it just can't. So as I said from health care primarily, I'm talking about primary, so you have one area from Krka to Neretva Dalmatian Zagora where in the last since the counties were founded, 100,000 people, and I've cited the reasons, health services don't exist, they're shutting down. You have a children's kindergarten problem and the problem of jobs is that entrepreneurs don't invest in these areas or people dare to invest in these areas when they can't be competitive in this area and now we have a labour problem in this area. If we want to encourage motherhood and if we see it falling and increasing demographic imagery, then we need to look at it broadly. And all indications are that two-thirds of Croatia are extinct, all of them. And nothing must be so black or we must send black messages is Croatia beautiful, Croatia has living conditions, Croatia is one of the most beautiful countries. When I talk about my end, I don't have a better end to the West than our sea, so for example. of our islands there is no end, there is no lipsheg on the eve and we do not trim it black to watch but trib everything and Istria, Slavonia all of it is beautiful, so we have here I am when I describe my end from Zaladje to Split is 20 minutes by car, Split is meaning the area of Split's swimming pool has more than 300,000 people, in the season millions of people arrive in touristic, so it is re-build. In the background, my Cetina landscape is natural to expand according to and that my Sinj and the Cetina landscape are suburbs of Split, it is natural with the fall of infrastructure projects and investments, protecting agriculture, what we can agriculture, tourism rural means it is a whole problem. But if we don't have jobs and if we don't make the job possible then absolutely not to have extra empty schools but houses, the hearths are shutting down, all the villages are shutting down. In my area of unfortunately school while there were once 600 children, 300, 400 district schools in the Cetina region are being shut down, the key in the lock and that's the problem. The problem is we're losing human potential. And Dalmatia, mainly about the Dalmatian Zagora and also Herzegovina, is not allowed to it is strategically very important, these people living Croats were the source of human potential. There are many families that filled Zagreb and even Western Europe. Now we have that area as empty as never before, and the most beautiful area for life is that area. I only see my Cetina landscape, all its advantages then can't source that we can't take measures to keep people in this area alive, to come back and even those from other parts to come live in these rural areas can live in these areas. And that's why the triba national survival strategy is in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183641	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Two replicas, the first one has Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183642	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you, but this is one of the measures that will help and stimulate some young people to decide to stay in Croatia and increase their family, but it is still insufficient. And I agree with you that you need jobs, that the workplace is a secure job, a prerequisite at all that a young man would start a family and decide to increase his family. However, it should be said that this government has done nothing to help employers to stay alive and work and create these new jobs in the depressed areas especially in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, as well as in you in Dalmatia, and what is even more devastating is that average wages are far behind the average wage in the Republic, that the minimum wage per EU data is below 60% of the median wage and that this is below the poverty threshold. How the poor man will decide then to start a family and increase a family, I think we need to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183643	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183644	So that I agree with you is simply everything that has been passed are the PR laws, the law on undeveloped areas, as well as mountain-mounted areas where there are ridiculous financial frameworks and where we don't have rules yet. For a year and a half that the law was passed even during Minister Žalac's time for these areas and mountainous and undeveloped we don't have rules, so they were PR laws, and that's not good. We had people who were demographics, who were dealing with the strategy, what Stramota said as a secretary then was the truth, every measure is a good measure, but this doesn't solve the problem. The key to the survival of the people in the area where you come from, from which I come is the workplace, and this workplace can be made possible by the entrepreneur. Therefore, in these areas there must be a minimum of one period of 10 years, 5 without taxes is not the same as being an entrepreneur in Zagreb in Varazdin or in your area or in my area. And these are measures, the workplace is the only one and best one of the best measures for the survival of people in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183645	Thank you, too. Mrs. Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183646	Thank you very much. So, dear Representative Bulj, you mentioned local environments that, with their measures, can help reduce this negative natural growth and somehow reverse that trend. But local environments have different fiscal capacities. When we say that all children are enrolled in kindergarten, this requires additional financial burden for the local environment, so an additional group needs to be opened, hire more breeders, hire additional staff. Certain local environments can handle it like we do in Orahovica, but maybe in some areas they can't. And there are unequal situations where, of course, in those environments parents do not decide to increase, to expand their family which is not good. I think there should be measures dictated by the state where they will be equal for all areas, especially for these areas that you mention that are particularly endangered in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There is only one city in Slavonia that has a positive natural growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183647	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183648	So now you've said, I know when the law was passed on mountain-mounted areas and undeveloped areas, that's what other countries did on the basis of a declaration that was adopted in 2000 in Barcelona that all children, i.e. By 2020 they have the possibility of being in kindergartens from 3 to 6 years old. And countries that are much more developed than us, Germany, Austria, those underdeveloped areas co-financed this part that parents and municipalities had to do at that time see development towards GDP. And I gave that amendment here, that in these areas every child had the possibility of kindergarten and that the state co-financed through measures that had not yet been adopted. the law which has been passed here but never on the underdeveloped and mountainous areas of the law has never given nor has the amendment been adopted. And it's a measure and it's equality and equality, but this government other than the PR law is nothing else...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183649	Thank you. Next individual debate Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183650	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law on maternity and parental support. All my predecessors have said a lot about this subject, but the demographic problem didn't arise yesterday and it can't be solved today. Demography is a problem that all EU countries face far richer than we do, and unfortunately so do we. The Republic of Croatia has defined constitutional provisions to protect motherhood, children and young people, and this is one way of empowering the family, this support and this bill of law, as well as all other support that this government has decided in its term of office. So this increase in the maximum amount of compensation or salary to 170% from 3.992 kuna to almost 5,700 kuna is the second increase in the mandate of this government, the first time this increase was in 2017 when from 2,660 kuna this fee was increased to 3.992 kuna. In addition, I would like to commend what is proposed by this law is the exercise of the right to support will be given by all those parents or mothers or fathers with a minimum of 9, not more than 12 months of work experience, which is of course commendable. I am sure this increase will help to bring private business life into line, but will also contribute to the growth of birth in the Republic of Croatia. But mostly when we talk about fees and support, we only mention mothers, but we must not forget that fathers have the opportunity to exercise this right. Currently, about 2% of fathers are using this possibility. What we should do in parallel with this is empower women and the labour market. We need to find a legal option to protect and help women, instead of coming to the conversation that they are not asked by the businessmen, craftsmen and others whether they have children, whether they are planning to give birth, whether they are planning to stay pregnant rather than to help them or to stimulate those same businessmen to hire such women on the labour market right now. All with the support of this government, but a regional and regional self-government unit that allows young parents through various measures through their budgets, we can all, of course, help together in the demographic restoration of our country. All the measures that this Government has made possible through tax reform in all four circles, which help empower families, young people and all those to stay in our homeland, of course, I support and welcome and, of course, through all the following measures that this Government will propose, and here we expect this measure to live in the 4th month and after 1 April of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183651	Thank you, too. We have several replicas, Mrs. Jelkovac first then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183652	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. You have well noticed the problem of demographicism is not only with us but also in far richer countries, which means that we cannot solve everything with financial support only, but it is certain that we should support such support because it strengthens our families in economic terms and facilitates their safe decision to increase the number of family members. In addition to these support for raising these aids, this government has also worked on other measures, let us remember that rural areas have been promoted and helped to build about 50 kindergartens, which is certainly one of the measures that will mean a lot in our local environments, especially in rural areas. And the empowerment of women in the labour market has been said and certain that this is significant, but it is also important to change the awareness in society that both parents are significant in raising children and that they should be equally involved in parenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183653	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183654	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, distinguished colleagues, the demographic problem is a problem that didn't arise yesterday, a problem we can't solve tomorrow, but here's all these measures, with this measure of law today that we have on our table and all those tax reforms that this government has carried out in four circles, of course, are measures that will certainly help the survival and survival of young people in the Republic. The same empowerment of women on the labour market must be done here from this Croatian Parliament, but from everywhere else, we welcome it and of course it is a process that we need to raise awareness of, or all of us, when we are conscious enough that women on the labour market will also be a more desirable group than they are now. And here I once again say that I support and greet this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183655	Thank you. Mrs. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183656	Thank you. Here's a respected colleague, you've noticed quite well that despite these measures being called maternity and parental support, we associate most of them with women, although of course every child has a second parent's father. What I also pointed out in my initial presentation, which I would point out now, is that in these measures we should certainly strengthen our father as an equal family member who participates in raising children, as well as in the normal growth and development of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183657	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183658	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, dear colleagues here, and in my debate, I said that when we talk about fees and support we usually mention the mother, but also your fathers are of course who should and should participate in raising their children and only currently 2% of fathers use this measure. Surely we need to work to include more fathers in the possibility of using maternity leave and I commend and support this measure once again. Surely all those measures that this government has implemented so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183659	Thank you. Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183660	Thank you. You, colleagues, in your debate, stressed that this is one of the demographic measures, and it should also be stressed that there is not only a Croatian demographic problem, among other things half of EU members have exactly one of these key problems, a problem with demographic movements. But in addition to this birth benefits measure, it should also be stressed that the government is taking a number of measures such as the construction of kindergartens, schools, scholarships and, of course, that all with the growth of the economy, wages, pensions should contribute to improving the demographic picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183661	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183662	Thank you very much. Yes, a respected colleague and much richer European countries face such a problem, but here's what I would point out is that this measure places us in the top of European countries who have this amount of maternity or maternity benefits, but here's all the measures that this government has made, with the restoration or over 400 kindergartens, certainly and this tax relief and all that will help strengthen the family and the survival of young people in our region.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183663	Thank you. And finally Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183664	Thank you, Vice President. Here, my colleague Jelkovac actually said what I thought, so not only in our environment closer but still all countries have problems with demographics and birthrights. Let's say one Hungary fell below 10 million inhabitants while working on these demographic measures and you said it was a process, so it's not an instant program, a process that lasts, it didn't come into existence today it came into existence yesterday. Of course, the government is trying to make the most of the additional efforts to help families, as well as the higher national policy in the Republic of Croatia, with any measure taken here in the Croatian Parliament. Remember, in the four rounds of tax reform, that we have freed the units of the local administration and self-government from parts of the tax that actually increased their budgets, and thus the units of local administrations and self-government were able to bring and create a demographic policy in their field as they needed it most and most.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183665	The next debate will be held by Mr. Sasa Djujic, and I apologize for the answer. Here you go, Mrs. Maximichuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183666	Thank you very much. That the esteemed colleague Babića this is not a problem that came up yesterday, it was created far earlier and cannot be solved tomorrow, but here is this measure and a series of measures, as well as tax discharge in 4 circles of 9.6 billion kuna is certainly something that will help all families, young people, but also everyone else in our region. Equally, discharging units of local and regional self-government should certainly be an incentive for all these same units to plan through their budgets here as much and stronger support for young families, of course parents, parenting, but also all of this support and subsidisation of kindergartens of course for children and preschool education or small schools in rural areas, and here I certainly welcome once again the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183667	Thank you very much. And now it's really Mr. Sasa Djujic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, demographics is a problem and the problem is that it lasts for years and I am not going to concentrate my debate on the whole problem of demographics and talk about all the measures or some of the things that this government has done wrong to encourage demography for me today because I think this is one good law and it's one very important law. And that's why I don't want to spoil it with those bad things, but I just want to talk about this law and I want to point out once again that I fully support it and that I think this is one, that this is one set of good measures in this law. I'm sorry that this law is going into regular procedure, that's what I have to say, I think it should have been an emergency procedure because I don't see that until the second reading something crucial will change in these proposals that you're proposing, and I think this is a law that should come into force as soon as possible. What I said already this morning and in the replica, which I think may have been necessary to show here, it is clear to me that there can be no jump now from 3,900 kuna to total demerition rather than that it should go gradually and in fact we have a prerequisite in the budget that is good this year and last year there is a trend of growth and that there is a space for increasing these fees and I know that it can't now jump 300-400% and this is already a significant leap that will make it a lot easier for parents to make those 6 months of other things in life when instead of the current 3,900 to 5,600 kuna somewhere even then, for the birth of twins this jump that is going, but I think this was supposed to show that ambition, and I said that in the projections of the budget for 2021, that it was supposed to show that the planning of these funds might be that the government has a desire to fully share the fees in the future. And I think it's extremely important because when a woman's numbers are shown, as a rule, women use this right the most, parents, men should also participate in it, but women who are in high paid positions are just more rarely opted for parenting and family-based in such a way through children, and I think that the measure if the fees were fully decommissioned in order to maybe further encourage women to decide on that step. I know how expensive costs are when, when you have a child, even though I say no one does, we who have decided on family and children haven't weighed it with expenses, but these measures certainly make it much easier for us. Secondly, I want to draw attention to the fact that I think it's still small fees for those couples who get twins and when they have a child by the age of 3 I think it's again below each level, even though it's an increase here, I think maybe we should go towards a slightly larger fee in this bill. The other thing, we're full of these measures, and basically when you come into practice, you see that some things aren't right. I'll say here now when the case of sick leave, so when, I don't know, the mother stays at home because her child is sick, then she writes to you in the law that she has the right to 100% salary for that period of sick leave, but then when you give the papers to HZZO, then you see that she writes there but not if it's more than £4,900, then it's calculated to you by day, as a rule, i.e. A fee for, say, an average Croatian salary, if a woman has 6500 kn, I won't be talking about higher salaries now, an average one, then the fee she gets for that period that she has to spend on sick leave is ridiculous. I'm going to say that's what's about 1,000, 2 kunas instead of up to for a whole month, they're very small amounts of you and that's basically, so one scam from the state system that's supposed to change and it's going to last for years, so that's not, this is an important topic and I don't want to politicize it with any letter. So, in order not to think that it's directed at this government, it's a problem that's been going on for years, but I think parents feel cheated when, like, you're entitled to 100% compensation, and you're basically getting some crumbs. And children are often sick in their first years of life, and mothers often have to stay at home, or fathers, irrelevantly, and I think that we should still work on extending the law to get rid of it. If it's 100%, it's 100%. as much as anyone has a salary, so be it, and I think this is a subject that must have over-the-counter support of all options and that, independently of what government is in a year, it should work precisely to be fully declassified and to remove these barriers that we have for parents to make this parenting life as easy as possible, let's just say. These costs are, in particular, the first couple of years big, diaper costs, there's a government that's made a good move, baby food, etc., but I think it should go even more in that direction, because let's say, a young family that has a residential credit because it's going to go to some apartment, so it gets one child, gets another child in 2, 3 years, in those 6 months when they can fall significantly family incomes because of this, parent benefits that are significantly reduced, and then if a parent spends time on sick leave, it can affect the parents standard, high costs all the others that go, I think we all have to work together on this plan and continue to do this. So I say one more time, I have no criticism. I know that there could be nothing overnight, and the only thing I'm missing is maybe that determination that you might have made, doing pressure on Minister Marić when he was making a budget that at least the projections are making that increase even though we have 160 million kunas scheduled for this year, the year is 240 seems to me or 220. The difference is because this law should only take effect from 1.4. And then there is no 4 months in there, but basically, there is a plan that the next 3 years will be no more demeriting or increasing these fees, and I think there should have been this one step to try to move in that direction so that we all push together towards these increases. Here, and I am a parent, I have a child of 2 years, and in 20 days I should have a second child, so I know, fortunately I have good income for Croatian terms, so we are going through it, but in general the average Croatian family, together if they are lucky to work both father and mother, together they may not have incomes like me, and I know what a cost it is to me, then you can imagine how big a cost to an average Croatian family. And in that direction, it should continue to work and try to run politics. Anyway, I support this now, and I can't be hypocritical, so say it now in pre-election time, here's what I'm going to propose law, let's all be in the other 6 months. Seven, eight thousand kunas of compensation or totally decommissioned, I know it's not possible and that no jump can ever be that, 500, 600%. This is a significant change, I think it's going to make it a lot easier for parents, I think most people who use it for the other 6 months belong to this lower group, and then basically it's going to turn out to be more equal pay, there won't be any change, and unfortunately these are now some other problems and some other policies that we need to work on, but here I'm saying, I'd like to show that ambition maybe if we had a plan for the next 5 years, we're going to raise it proportionally every year and then finally share that part. Anyway, here, these may be my thinking in which direction I should be going, and this part now I can't support and say, I'm sorry that maybe this law didn't go by the emergency procedure because a lot of the laws that should go regularly in this House are then going into an emergency procedure, they're pushing over their knees, and this one that I think is extremely important and I don't remember in the last, here, a year that we've had a more important law in this House than this, even though it has minimal changes in a few articles, I think it should have gone in an emergency procedure, but in any case support of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183669	Thank you, and congratulations in advance for the child in 20 days. Mr. Djujic, congratulations in advance. - Mrs. Crescent. Voter, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183670	Col. Djujic, of course you should welcome the increase in parental fees, I will say so, from 2600 to 5654 kuna in these four years. It is truly commendable and indeed, it would be hypocritical not to support such a thing. However, the Government should also be supported, supported in efforts to solve those groups of parents that are not dealt with by this law, you have listed some categories here, but also that, in parallel with this law, there are no fewer important items that are crucial or decisive factors when planning parenthood, and that is the way to solve the housing issue, okay here we have the co-financing of credit where and the birth of a child in some way contributes to the extension of the length of co-financing by the state but let us not forget neither kindergartens, nor the homes of pensioners because these are all services that allow parents easier life and greater commitment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183671	Thank you, time. Mr. Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183672	Absolutely, I think there will be a big difference now, let's say, between parents who get twins, they have this fee they have, but I think this is good, and what's good, we should stress that it's good, and we shouldn't run away from it, but we should warn these very groups that you said and I think there's a lot of space and there's a lot of things, let's say there's a big help when you get the HZZ 2400 kn to help buy equipment, that every family in Croatia gets, I think, and that could be increased, so that part should be raised. There are some things that the state can't influence, let's just say it's abnormal for me to have shoes or shoes cost maybe more expensive than for us adults, so there's less material and all, but that's some commercial stuff again. So the dealer knows that you have to buy a shoe to a child or a shoe and then it costs 500 kn and I find it rudely expensive but that's why the state may otherwise have to make it easier for parents through these aids and equipment purchases and there are also cities and municipalities and there's plenty of space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183673	Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183674	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, of course I will also agree with my colleague, Djujic, but also with all the predecessors who have been involved in this debate today that this law should be supported. What I would have had is an appeal, and that's what we're saying is that we're going ahead with small steps and most things work that way in society, but today when we see that demographics is a burning problem, when the headlines of the newspaper are literally screaming that we're threatening a demographic breakdown, I think we should still make a little faster decisions, in that sense I support you here when you said that this law might have been meant in an emergency procedure because we all witnessed a lot of less important laws here, so they went into an emergency procedure and here it wasn't the case. Of course, there are a lot of elements that could be further improved, which could be financially significant, which could make it easier for parents but let's try to give a little more energy somewhere else if this is such a burning problem and we'll all agree it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183675	Mr. Djujic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183676	That's right, fellow Vesligai, I keep saying that priority is always a matter of all the questions and I think you should put that emphasis there. Now we are doing well, we have good income, while this is going on, we need to use it, and I think this law is welcome, but in fact, while these fees were small, I have to stress again, the cities and municipalities that can give great support to parents and through the prices of kindergartens, and through the prices of the purchase of equipment and the fees for the firstborn child, there are differences in Croatia normally from city to city, from municipality to municipality where this is a bigger problem, somewhere smaller, where the municipality or city can financially support it more but I agree right now, I think it is time that the financial situation of the state is also good to put even more emphasis on the problems of demographicism and to determine in this direction that this is the priority of all our priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183677	Mr. Babic, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183678	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You commended something Mr. Djujic, and I will commend him, from a young SDP revolutionary accepts these conservative ideas and well, he spoke nicely of them, I agree with him that it is a supranational law, so it is not the most important thing that has been adopted in this Croatian Parliament as you have said but it is one of the life, life-threatening laws and it is certain that some things happen in time, in the circumstances in which we live. So this demographic problem is visible in all areas and what if there are no inhabitants in it especially in some areas where we don't actually have people, that's why he's good. But there's another thing I wanted to tell him. A lot of people in our country at any level are calling the state and asking the state. Thus, the state has also transferred some of the funds to local self-government units, and they need to create this demographic policy so that this measure and some other measures may be greater and stronger because of family and their image in society or facilitating life in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183679	Mr. Babic, time. A little, a little, a little, good, good. Answer, here you go, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183680	I don't know if you've recognized these conservative methods here but I'm glad you're praising me as a young SDP revolutionary, it's a great honor, being a revolutionary, there's a lot of famous revolutionaries in history, here's a colleague named Curaj, he knows one. I don't think I'm worthy of being characterized like that, but thank you, thank you, thank you for your compliments, I'm glad you admire me, but I just told my colleagues Vedligaj before you that during this entire period when the state may have done not enough or perhaps couldn't have done more, regardless of what government it is, it was the cities and municipalities that had just contributed to making it easier for young families there and I hope that it will continue, each city according to its ability and it is a great relief when you have a grant for kindergarten, when you have compensation for every newborn child, for food, for the purchase of equipment, transportation to school, and a variety of subsidies, and I hope it will continue to be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183681	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183682	Coli Đujic, it is good that you mentioned this pain problem and sickness benefits where 100% of the salaries should be paid as sick benefits because often children are especially those who go to kindergarten, mangers, monthly two, three times sick, and then we are in a situation where parents feel deceived especially by single mothers and people with lower incomes, it is a huge blow to their home budget and it is an opportunity to comment here again and finally get rid of it because parents really feel deceived especially if they have to drive a sick child outside of a place of residence if there is no pediatrician, a logo, which is often the case, and in the end we cannot afford it financially and bring them into a situation that they are in a dilemma whether they are driving a sick child in kindergarten or going to a hospital. I think it's one of the measures that needs to be taken. And these fees should also be followed by a rise in consumer basket prices, I think that should also be incorporated into the law if our prices are constantly rising and food products and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183683	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183684	I agree with you fellow Vlaovic completely and I think that this is another important problem that is related to the illness, and in fact I'm in favour of the full decommissioning of the compensation because you have on the paper we say the parent has the right to 100% sickness benefits if he stays home for the sick child, and in the end, when you draw the line, it's more worth saying that he himself is sick than that he stayed for the child because he gets more compensation from the pension if he stays for his cold than for the cold of the child. And I think it's a bad message and that these people feel deceived, and that's why it needs to be pointed out, and that it's the same problem of the burning ones that should be solved as soon as possible and as quickly as possible, to make it easier for parents and the situation they face very often, especially in the first years of growing up their child.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183685	Let's move on with individual debates, Mr. Ivan Lovrinović is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. The topic is very interesting, but a question is raised, as has already been said here, how is it that we are discussing birth benefits today, or amendments to the law, when the ruling one did not foresee it with their plan of sitting until the parliamentary elections, how is this now being debated about raising maternity benefits when it is not foreseen in the budget for this year? So I can't get the impression that this ruling action is primarily focused on parliamentary elections, on increasing the popularity that is getting worse every day, is constantly having some affairs, shifts, leaving the minister's shift, etc., etc. But in front of the party Let's change Croatia I can't support this measure, so here's a rather significant increase, but what you see here is sad, after this recent discussion or maybe my someone will come from HDZ and here's a word you see how we are supported by these. So we know why you started this, we need to say hello because it goes in favor of all birth mothers to improve their standard of living, but it means what needs to be said here, the damage is great, the great pity that you haven't taken advantage of this opportunity to complete with a number of measures of the most intelligent policy, demographic policy, means increasing the number of newborn children, and that's really a shame. Because why? So it can't just increase maternity benefits so let's say to stimulate a larger number of children in Croatia. With such a judiciary where one law is not the same for all along with a simple bad economic situation, with the employment through relationships and much we cannot therefore create in society uncertainty, and it cannot be solved only by such measures to increase the maternity benefits that I once again welcome because it will mean a lot to some, let’s say mediocre, but in any case it will mean something. In that sense, you have proposed only one measure to increase the income from 3.991 kuna to 5,654 kuna and from 1 April of this year onwards, means that this will be decided in the budget, you have probably planned because you will not be in power again, so let those who come after. In this context, I would like to say the following, you see what is particularly important here, in addition to the maternity benefits, is also an instrument called a child's allowance. But what policy is it in Croatia? The birth benefits are paid by HZZO, and the child's allowance HZMO, so if you want to run it, if you want to run it for another half year, but no more time, it has to be united somewhere, must mean money must be for everyone in one place to know what is available, to run one thought-out policy from one place. This is scattered, so it doesn't work for my people like that. And then I had to look for data in a few places now, so maybe one of you will be interested, at global level means macro-level says that birth benefits in 2018 are paid at around 950 million kuna. So after this increase for this year, it's going to increase by 160 million kuna, so it's going to go beyond a billion in 2021, and in 2021, it's going to increase this amount of 950 million more by 214 million kuna, so let's round it to 1.2 billion kuna in 2021, in 2022, it's going to cost all birth benefits. So we need to know what the sum of gentlemen is because it's not the Parliament's service here that we're gleaning what kind of policy you're leading to put something in your hat or in your pocket. The problems here are far more difficult. A proactive and one new demographic policy must be guided by vision, and it must cover a whole series of measures from kindergarten, a special tax policy. Because you see, why didn't you cancel the VAT on everything that's related to kids and food and clothes and shoes? You say no, but 0% is possible, but you don't know it, not only do you not know it but you don't want it because if you give it up, and you keep the VAT, then you give it on one side, and on the other hand you take the VAT, on this, on that, on that, on that, on that. We'll definitely end it. Well, it's a small amount of revenue for the budget, but for parents, it's a big stimulant. Well, we all have kids or grandchildren, so we know what we're talking about. So I said that from the state register or the HZZO for maternity benefits will go about 1.2 billion now after the increase let's see next to the maternity benefits the child's allowance is very checked, a good instrument of intelligence policy, and who doesn't know and doesn't believe to look at it, examine Germany as well. The child's allowance has to be for the child, not the parent, why, because the kid comes to himself as soon as he gets there, because after 7, 8, 10 years he comes to himself, so he's gonna tell Mom this isn't your money, I want to keep this for high school, for college, etc., etc. Now, how much do we pay for children's extras a year, gentlemen? I didn't hear that information here at all because that's how it's discussed here. You can see from the data from HZMO data there are no latest I can't get them, but for 2017 a billion and 400 million kuna were allocated for children's allowances in Croatia. So if we add up those billions and 200 for birth benefits and a billion and 400 million for children's allowances, that's 2.6 billion kuna, so that's part of the ultimate policy, that's what it's supposed to give to mothers who use mandatory maternity leave and the one after that, and on the other hand, children as extras. Now, besides being an agent and a politician, I'm also an expert in economics. Let's see if this is a lot? Some people say here, so that's a lot. So listen when you pick up a man from 1,000 kuna to 1,500 that's really very much 50%. But let's do some other math, gentlemen, because Croatia can't be changed cosmetically. I said the justice system needs to be lit up and some others, I know exactly what to do. But you see most of you do not know, as well as the citizens that Croatia singles out interest on state debts 9.5 billion kuna a year. I repeat Croatia, taxpayers we pay annual interest on state debts 9.5 billion kuna and I kill myself in this assembly proving for the past 3 years that we could cut it in half and save at least 4 billion kuna per year. If we could save 4 billion kuna a year, and I said that the total expenditure on maternity benefits and children's allowances are 2 billion and 600 million kuna, so we could have another such amount of these savings increased, of course we wouldn't have all of that, and we who view the economy as a whole, and not.../incomprehensible/... we know exactly what we should do. And respected citizens, you who listen to this and see that you have my solutions, but you can't come from these, you can't say that in the media, the question of whether or not you're hearing this too if you're not looking over the computer, over the Internet, you can't because the blockade is terrible. This is an unprecedented blockade. Nothing new can come, but I'm glad you can hear it. And another idea, so I'm not implying this, I've clearly shown that we have solutions to the parties to change Croatia has very clear solutions to be innovative and how to finance, it's important. And the last thing, the measure, the mother of the breeder, is a good measure. However, one mayor of Zagreb also served for political and pre-election purposes and then brought 5,000 mothers to Zagreb now in a very unpleasant situation that would reduce them or that, it was worth up to 15 years, he would take them off, he would want to take off until 8 years, and they would immediately remain meaning nowhere, without a job, without compensation, etc. It is high time we seriousised Croatian politics, turned this assembly into an institution that will be trusted by the people and supported by sound measures and that we know how to finance it, demographic growth and protect family and mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183687	There's no replica, is there? Yeah. Mrs. Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Lovrinovic, you spoke of the fees that were scattered in several places, I am sorry that Mrs. Bernardica Juretic took over when she took over the ministry, the first decision she made was to break up the agreement that I signed with the World Bank on the construction of a single monetary centre in which all fees were to be united. On the one hand, it would be easier for citizens to benefit from compensation in one place, and on the other hand, the state would have good control. For a child's allowance, a terrible girl's money. This is about income censorship, a lot of people applying to that minimumer, and when you look at their real estate and property, it turns out they have extremely large assets. So, one, one fee where a good control mechanism would be made, and it could have been made through a single cash centre would surely have left a lot of money that could be more justly distributed to children who needed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183689	Answer, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183690	Here's a colleague I didn't know about that idea, she's certainly all that's good, it's good, if she was a good idea she was. But why don't they go away, why don't they come together in one place because then you can follow the money flows, and obviously some don't want to. And on the other hand, it should be obvious to fire a number of relatives and relatives, you know, and that's the problem, and the arrests of which taxpayers are already cramping, they can't carry that burden, so it's time to put things in place, to rot parts of a building called the Croatian state, to finally cut them down, to throw them away, but from them you can't rot a country, where they would throw it away, just nothing would give birth, just grow weeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183691	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Boric has his own debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183692	Thank you very much, Vice President. I want to say something about these changes to the Law on Birth and Parental Refunds because obviously this problem of demographics, the depopulation is somehow alive during this government since 2016, until then this problem was not recognized it simply didn't exist, the time in which we lived in some other governments, especially there from 2010 to 2015 we entered into a recession period, everything was good, it was good to come and some compensation, well it was to come and pay in time and pension as it is, it is, it's good, so here by the arrival of this government all the problems have somehow come to the surface and every debate in fact is moving with what's wrong in this country and what this government has done everything, and so it's just all black, bad, never worse and simply people drink such stories, the media is daily about this report and we live in which it's all debated, that it's all wrong to hear it's better, and it's better to hear it's better than to say that it's better. Demography and depopulation we've heard and that's not something that's only captured this government, but it's said during it, so when it's Mrs. Shuica also became Vice-President of the European Commission on the subject to be dealt with, it sucks because everyone has dealt with this before, etc. And it's nothing that should cheer anyone up in the Republic, it's more important what other image she leaves or what she didn't say right, etc., and the whole story about these fees. When something grows by 100% compared to something that was in 2015 we say is not good because I guess it should have stayed where it was in 2015, when the budget of the Ministry of Social Welfare which is more or less the same as it was and increased by two billion compared to what was in 2015, and that's not good, the state says here's 6.5 billion, so solve all the social problems you have in the system. Of course, then the messiahs who say here just need to bring down this government, we will solve it all, we have 3 solutions, the specific advice of wise men who immediately solves all the problems of the view and simply realizes, but in the first day almost all the problems of the state that occur every day because the issue of demographicism, I come from local level, is also a question that happens at local level, is not only the top of the state or central state that can or should solve it, we have a number of examples of local self-government units that approach this problem in their own way of looking at what they can and how much they can access in their social programme in the way that they think is possible and that it gives them sufficient opportunities to meet at least certain needs of young parents, parents who want to have children, to facilitate their first year of life and to make it easy for them an absolute way into a new life. I know as much as we single out that social policy story ourselves, but we're also monitoring statistics. My 1200 inhabitants die between 13 and 17 people every year and we are born 12 to 14 children, which means I'm 10 years old. We must be losing about 30 to 50 inhabitants of the municipality, a small community, and that is a problem that is not only easy to solve by maternity compensation, newborn benefit, free kindergarten or co-financing I don't know how many of these activities these children have at local level. The state has tried through this law to help parents at a time when they want and are with their children and have to be with them, have appropriate fees for leaving their jobs at that time and finally when they return to work to work for their pay normal again and to have appropriate compensation, which is bad at that point, I think it is nothing and that simply one measure is something that contributes, nothing relates, contributions, it is not true that the government has not thought about it because it writes clearly in the law how much it costs, how much at the division of the Ministry of Social Care and Demography, and how much in the division of HZZO, it means, is there and a lie is when someone like himself calls a financial expert says that there is no and that the government has entered it because it's pre-election years, it's a pure lie, so I simply say in all these discussions to recognize what is best for parents, I believe that at the vote parents. MPs support it because this problem is something that is visible, it is visible that we have in the rural area of the problem, perhaps in urban areas it is not so expressed, but I believe that there is this in Zagreb, and in Rijeka, and Osijek and smaller cities because everyone here is trying to jump in their own way. Have we worked on helping parents in this term? I think that we are, alone a children's kindergarten construction program that is recognised as a employee problem, which has no place to leave a child is something that has begun to solve, today there are hundreds of kindergartens in construction in various ways and with co-financing of state and local self-government, and that is something that will probably contribute to that in some future period we have enough room for those who need it. What else did we do? I think that just raising wages through 4 rounds of tax reform has also been a certain contribution to all of this, but we hear that there has not been a reduction of VAT on diapers, on children's equipment, on supplies, etc., and a reduction of such stories we have said in the assembly daily where it has been ignored and everything that needs to be done in a way that we simply say false things and tell the regiment or citizens you simply have to bring it down, especially this government that's done a lot in every segment or area she's dealt with, but simply perception has to go to all the irrelevant and irrelevant moments that are supposed to happen in this country. In order for this to be possible, it was probably necessary to arrange public finances, that this could be paid not only for this measure, but probably for some others to follow, something had to be done in public finances, and it did, we hear that there was nothing wrong and that it was all holding water until the masters went away, and it is not so that we expect the citizens to understand that what is done was not the final end of everything we heard a number of demographics, there was no such thing as to hear from 2011 to 2015. Nowhere, all at one point and know exactly what measures they needed, and when some of them got the opportunity, they went and said that it was easier to spread it from some professional position but to take a certain move that can be justified by a legal act, strategy, but also by the financial means that are possible, if it is already a more difficult story and a more demanding task. It's no problem to say if you haven't made decisions and we're making them at local level every day and it's not easy to listen to social stories, but simply systems exist. And if what your colleague Opačić said were united, from all levels that are set aside, they would probably realize that there are clearly still certain improvements in this system, but that it is also very much generating large amounts of money that if added from local level to what is singled out on the side of the country, that these are still billions of kunas that go into the social system to make it easier for the lives of many who have certain problems in certain of their life activities. I think that this law is really good at its intention, that it wants to help parents, that it will certainly do so and whether it is the turning point that more children will be born or not, I think it is not the simplest solution, so let's say by law we will be able to ensure that more or less children are born and that this is not just a question of some legal act but also many other factors that make up the lives of a family and especially young people today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183693	Oh, well, we have a lot of replicas. First replica, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183694	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Boric, birth law is of course a good law and it goes as much as to help the births and people and women with small children, but if we hear that we have 9.5 billion interest in this country so let's ask ourselves what we've been doing before, where we've been going, how we've been able to borrow so much, don't follow our development of the economy since I'm an entrepreneur myself, so I know what it takes to take care of money, so the state has to take care of every kuna and the money it has. I know this law is good and it goes hand in hand, whether it's enough, it's about that then but the possibilities are as they are. Social assistance that people get and certain citizens who have big houses, who drive maybe even Mercedes and BMWs, and it can be found, why and it is not going to check so that something from that money could be transferred to maternity homes, births and laws, but we are doing it very slowly and demographics, of course, but we need to do a lot of order in the country to separate as much money as possible for birth as we need because a lot of the young world has gone out of the country and we need to encourage it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183695	Time, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183696	Thank you very much. My colleague Misic, so here's only in the part where you said we were paying 9.5 billion interest, and there's this government that's obviously the only one who's in charge of everything and trying to solve a lot of inherited things, and it's doing it in a positive way, but it's not good, there's a lot of better ones who've been borrowing us and 70 billion in the mandate, and they say they were great and it just had to be that way and this government just had to solve it and turn the trends, a reduction in public debt compared to the percentage of GDP, and nominally if it's possible throughout the mandate plus all of the many problems that are going to or have come to pay off already. So this story is just about this law plus all the debates we have here in Parliament, I say, it's up to the citizens to recognize whether anyone's been trying, working, and whether they're going to deliver some result at the end of their term, there's going to be a lot of it, and there's going to be a problem when they're going to have to show up really what happened. so we could say so much we inherited and so much we delivered [[Time, thank you, thank you.]] That's the difference. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183697	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183698	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, and your predecessors and you here are looking back at demographic problems and we can all conclude that they can't be solved overnight, that it's a process that lasts. Similarly, we can agree that this is a superseded topic, today we have heard a lot of good proposals on both sides of this assembly, but what you're talking about is that national policy and measures require national inclusion of local and regional self-government units and all of us working together to get demography or to strengthen families through various measures, but here, through tax reform to local and regional self-government units, definitely with the funds they've received through tax relief, we provide the possibility that through our budgets, or through the measures of local and regional policies, we help young families and strengthen them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183699	Time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183700	Thank you very much. Comrade Maximchuk, I'm just going to take a quick look at what we're doing at the local level and see if we're helping young people or not. So the birth benefits for the newborn as soon as the child is born, first child, 3, 6, 8000, third child, each fourth additional amounts. I tell a lot of local self-government and over tens of thousands of kunas, some in a few years pay off. After that, a nursery-subsidized price, as much as possible plus half-day, a full-day stay somewhere and 100% subsidized almost and free in some local self-governments, with me 30% paid by parents, 70% of municipalities. After that basic school, this year introduced free textbooks for everyone. No one wants to talk about it because it's like something normal, so far the problem has become, like, workbooks who buys or doesn't buy them. After that, subsidized or free transportation of primary school students, secondary schools, islands to the first stop on land and then after that scholarship we come through certain periods to talk about helping. Is that enough? We can probably do even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183701	Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183702	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, listening to your debate, I wish there were still a little more arguments, but I agree with your thesis that it is not the only money that is related to the most intelligent policy and that we will not or no more children. I agree that it takes a change in the social climate and what you said, so we always start with those negative topics, apathy, lethargy, hopelessness, fear that has a profound impact on people, young people, the planning of their families, the uncertainty in the environment in which we live. So the social climate, in my opinion, is extremely important for the change and the ultimate policy, not just the money or the stimulation or compensation that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183703	Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183704	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, here's my impressions by listening to my colleagues' discussions here. I heard a debate today saying that there's no one left in the rural area, that there's a colleague left I think Bull I'm in Suhache. Well it's not true, it's not true there's in the rural space of people, people go away and that's true, but that in many ways it's trying to enrich that life through social life and in many ways, so through local budgets, through the help of regional levels and states it seems. Is that enough, so I always say we can do better. This is where we have to fight some elections through certain programmes and what we offer to be better than what we saw or found, but here all stories come down to the fact that everything was great until 2016 and that then it's a disaster in the whole country and there's no discussion of the day that doesn't talk about blackness, depression, defetism in which everyone should live and thus think about their country. I don't think about it that way, and I think I'm doing everything daily to make me feel better and... It's better to live better in this country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183705	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Boric. Mrs. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Boric, I didn't hear in this assembly today that someone didn't welcome these measures. You say otherwise. But I must tell you that it is up to concrete measures that the Government would have done at the beginning of its mandate concrete procedures to reduce emigration and to bring back those who have been evicted and to keep our families in Croatia. Now it's actually a question of whether this measure can succeed and bring back from a demographic breakthrough and result in a larger number of children. Will teachers have children to enroll in the first grade next year? The government should have made a national demographic strategy at the start of its mandate and even before to reduce negative trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183707	Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183708	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I have heard such debates, no matter what you say, and when we talk about who goes and why goes, so here's an example in your own party, your head is between the salary he had in the assembly and the one that was in another parliament in Brussels chose the one that was bigger for him. In some ways, you have all split up and decided that it is better to sacrifice yourself for his higher salary than to have him stay here and defend the color of the Living Wall, given that he too felt the EU's benefits or to join the EU. It was one of those benefits and you're wondering why he did it today. Well, he probably did because there's a lot better and easier for him and he's not going through this kind of debate like he might be having here in this assembly. So here, if I can help with you here, you might be able to start with you in the Living Wall and find some differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183709	The breach of Mrs. Sabolek's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183710	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. 238 The gentleman insults and brings lies. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183711	Let's move on. Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183712	Don't be afraid tomorrow everyone will vote for this bill, no one will be against it. It's not a bad law, but if you think you're going to improve the demographic situation like this, then you're wrong. You know, in a country where 14 ministers were replaced by 8 for corruption, in a country where the main party has procedures for larceny, for stealing, people don't want to stay. And they will not raise their children in such a land, nor will they dwell therein. Therefore, in order to improve the demographic situation, the overall political situation must be improved, and HDZ has proven not to be able to do so, proven. In a country where no minister knows how to fill a property card, where he registers meadows, and has a villa there, and as it has reached that villa, in such a country, watch the anti-demographic measures that HDZ implements. And now by raising maternity benefits He won't be able to make it right. [[Intruder: Time, Mr. Stazic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183713	Mr. Boric, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183714	Thank you very much. A fellow Stazic might be better off in this country if they didn't listen to yours and your writings and excuses sometimes, so that means they don't read what you're writing, like you and your predecessors didn't do the job in '45. until the end, no, perhaps younger people would experience it differently, but unfortunately, when they see you as such in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps one of the demographic measures would be to no longer see you there with such expression and with such reflection. Maybe that. Because very quickly and forget that you used to sit in this place and defend all those laws that didn't bring anything up or on this matter. The same amount was in 2011 and 2015, you were unable to do so. Today you are spreading your minds, and you have done all things disastrous and evil, and therefore the people have replaced you. As far as ministers are concerned, how many ministers have disappeared from the Milanovic government that you supported, then 10. In what way did they leave, out of their own will? No, they were all in corruption and affairs much worse than what you're saying is the affair.../The speakers are saying at the same time, it doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183715	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric, thank you very much. Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183716	Mr. Boric of HDZ, so of course you're using this for election purposes, I see that you learned from your coalition partner, Mr. Bandic, and the local elections in 2017, here's a good one. I would just like to point out to you that in the last few years you have destroyed Croatian youth and displaced it and experts warn that what you have managed to do will not recover from it for the next 100 years, demographically will not recover 100 years. Mr. Boric and now you have the courage to tell us something at all, and I also have to remind you that the Living Wall has given its proposal to the law to confiscate illegally acquired property that you would all give for demographic purposes, so all these millions, hundreds of millions, if not the billions you stole, we would invest in demographics, here is the solution Mr. Boric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183717	Mr. Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183718	Thank you very much. As for the Living Wall, it's all visible in the assembly, we don't need much about it, here's one of your former colleagues, so you're back in some way and you got into this assembly, so he had to walk away from you, he didn't get along, you split up about one salary in the European Parliament. So I say [[I'm not, I'm not.]] All right, I'm saying, they've broken up in the Living Wall around that one salary, and there's just been a few parties, and that party has just been offering young people those solutions you're talking about, you've left them for one of your leaders' salaries in the European Parliament, and it's all for nothing when that salary was more valuable, more valuable than what you represent, and today you need to calm down. You have to make peace with that people, those young people who may have looked at you as something different, they don't look at you anymore, they realized that this salary was more important to you than anything you represent. [[Intruder: I'm not]] And that's the only truth. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time, time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183719	I'd just like to appeal to all of us to stick to the subject, to no one's specifics, difuzely. Mr. Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183720	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Boric, you say not everything is important in money, I agree here and this law is supported, but it is important that the message you send to young people and now imagine what kind of message you are sending to young people who have no settled housing issue, you from the HDZ system that the APN director gives himself an apartment in Zadar, and that is the message that young people send from the Republic of Croatia. As far as demographics are concerned, you absolutely have no policy on the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia, and you don't need an opposition to speak, that's what your former ministers should tell you. Why did you replace the Minister of Demography who is no longer a minister? Well, the secretary of state wasn't me thinking in the history of Croatian politics that the Secretary of State for Demography came to your press and said that the demographics of your party were folklore, that's a fact, so it's a fact, that, your secretary of state said Mr. Strmoth on his way out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183721	Mr. Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183722	Thank you very much. A colleague of Pranic, you who is a former member of HDZ, then MOST, and at the end of the day, a young man or a youth list have probably tried a part of these social measures as a leader and everything you need to do as a leader that even citizens in your own, in your sky get certain things. But while we're at those apartments, let's say the leader in the party where you were once a member or were part of them and came to the assembly with them, he got a loan from that APN, so you can now explain to me in some way what the difference between that apartment and that director has been removed today and that loan, I don't think any government official has been given a subsidized state loan so far to solve a housing issue, I don't know, maybe there is, here if and that question let's see what it is. We're talking APN, let's leave the Minister of Finance. [[Intruder: Minister of Finance]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183723	Mr. Pranic, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please be clear what it is, in which article and what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and now let the time go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183724	Art. In 238, you said I was a member of the HDZ, I was never a member of the HDZ, and I never intend to be a member of the HDZ because HDZ is an elementary disaster of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183725	Well, we're clear now, you weren't a member of the HDZ, so let's move on, Mr. Marco Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183726	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, fellow Boric, it is always fascinating to listen to you so to speak because what comes to HDZ suddenly all improves, all economic indicators, before it was a disaster. Today you entered into a small contradiction, even you were able to admit that the recession was during the time that HDZ was actually in power, so you said from 2010, 2015 to 2015, and then you explained a little bit of that recession that then simple things needed little, there is not so much natural resources, there is neither at local nor at the state level, then a number of local units are much less subsidized than they are doing today. And as for this one of yours that they need local units more, I agree there, but also despite this tax reform that has brought some positive effects you still have huge differences, that you have in the north of the Republic of Croatia local units that have some 2.5 to 3.500,00 kn per capita, and that in some parts of the Republic of Croatia di local units you have with 10 to 11.000,00 kn per capita, so we still have these big differences [[/Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Squirt's time.]] which we haven't solved... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183727	Mr. Boric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183728	Comrade Vesligaj, you as local leader know that this government has helped you and your local self-government to have more resources, so what with them we can do. But when you listen to this about recession, then you didn't listen well because I'm down to it because you said we're in recession now, we can't get out of it, we don't know and everything is good, there's no demographics, there's no problem, there's no problem, there's no demographics, there's no demographics, there's no one there, young people are born, the older ones are dying, they're dying, everything's normal, but at one point when we're all saying it's not good enough, everything can be just not know how much better, and you're just the new solution I've been listening to lately, you're the same I'm saying that you couldn't do anything other than that 70 billion long, you spent it, I keep asking, nobody knows where, what it was, no? And all the negative indicators you could get, and besides, the last, the sixth worst government in the world was kind of yours. the mark and that's what's offered as [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] alternative. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183729	Time because it's on now, now it's Mr. Ivan Pernar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183730	Dear Representative Boric. A proposal for maternity benefits. My wife is currently on that maternity leave, she's a dentist, she's done college, she's started working, but she's been pregnant pretty fast, she's not really finished, and now she's got a family fee of £2400, and I'm now pushing her, look, Victoria, let's have another baby, she says Ivane, I can't live at £2400, have it, because why? Because as if she wasn't working in a piece how long she needed to work before she went to maternity school to get this sort of, I don't know, full amount of that fee, etc. And since the legislator hasn't thought about it, or he doesn't care, I can't talk Victoria into another child right now, she says, no, I won't, I want to work now, I can't live on 2400 kn and then I'm still wire, my friend. Think of others, don't just think of yourself as HDZ gentlemen. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183731	Thank you very much. Knowing yourself, a woman, your wife's a dentist, she's not a dentist, is she? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183732	Well, there's some contradictions here. The dentist, she didn't finish college, she works... [[Intruder Radin: No, no, no.]] And she's done. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But what's wrong with you, then? So I expect your help in this, if this is all not enough and you should contribute to it, I suppose, and in this family two should help... So you have to try to be in your next term, which is gonna be hard for you, right? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because you simply missed the policy direction, you went from those who created you as the Living Wall, no, and then you'll just have a problem. [[Please don't.]] So, I say, accept this law because it's going well. Here, that's what I can help you with right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183733	There he is. And I am pleased to announce the last line, Mrs. President. Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183734	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Boris, you said that the problem of demographics is a problem that needs to be addressed at national level and that it is not all as black as our opposition wants to show it. [[Intruder Radin: Juričev-Martinchev.]] Well, we've recently been able to read that we have a demographic shift, that in the Dalmatian islands there are more and more inhabitants, that in the last six, seven years, for example. Solta records as many as 23% of the population, in Vis 20 families more, the Long Island records 190 more, in Salima we have 14 first-borns this year, unlike last year when there were 5 and, of course, each of these mayors is taking their own steps and ways to help their young families. In Salima, we have a baby benefit, for the first baby, 60 thousand kuna, on Vis, 22 apartments are built from the state-owned building project and 13 apartments from our funds, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183735	Thank you. Mr. Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183736	Thank you very much. We are not Zagreb, we are islanders, regardless of what we are trying to do with an organised policy for two decades now, to save lives and to enable even more people to live on islands, and I think that this country through all governments is doing so far because, annually, big money is being allocated to solve those basic infrastructure, transport, social, municipal infrastructures, means that we will solve all problems, and then local self-governments, which are also through tax reforms, through changes to the Income Tax Act, allow them to have higher tax revenues in their budgets, so probably from that side can also issue certain fees that are really large. 60 thousand kuna for the first child is a huge fee that probably even some cities richer may not want or can't pay, but there's probably a reason why. I say, I'm happy for myself that and in my midst, to a little people We have almost 200 children under the age of 18. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And that's where they live. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183737	Because now it's time to take a stand on behalf of the Representatives' Club and the Independent Representatives' Club. He's first in front of IDS, PGS and RI, Mr. Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183738	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. Number 815, Proposer is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law and amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 114 for, 6 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183739	The following item of the agenda is: - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the regulation of the European Union on the transport of wood and wood products, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 769 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Zeljko Kraljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies of Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys. The law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the transport of wood and wood products ‘National Journal’ No 25 of 18 which entered into force on 22 March 2018 provides for the implementation of the Regulation of the European Union which regulates the area of transport of wood and wood products. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the applicable law provides for further harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union or for the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 20 19/10 10 on the harmonisation of reporting obligations in the field of environmental-related legislation. The final draft law provides for, instead of two years of reporting, a one-year report on imports of wood and wood products from third countries into the internal market of the European Union and on the internal market of the European Union, and the formats and manner of reporting on imports of wood and wood from Indonesia from the countries which will be defined by the Commission. The final proposal for the law also laid down compliance with the provisions of the Law on the State Administration System of the “National Journal” No. 66 of the 19th and, instead of the central state authorities of the Administration, the authorities of the State Administration shall be designated responsible for implementing the regulations governing the area of transport of wood and wood products, since the division of state bodies to central and first-degree state administrations has been abolished. In relation to the text of the proposal for a law which was first read and which was accepted in HS without any objection, the proposer in the text of the final draft law shall make an amendment to the Article. 3 which are prescribed to enter into force and, instead of the entry into force of the law of 1 January 2020, the entry into force of this Agreement shall be decided on 8 days from the date of its publication in the National Journal. Next, we have in the debate today a final draft law to reach the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products fully comply with the EU acquis as well as with the applicable legislation on the state administration system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183741	Representative Miro Bulj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183742	Thank you very much. Tree, forest in Croatia and transport of wood, i.e. The wood is and forests are one of the largest resources that should serve domestic, domestic industry development, wood processing and the total economy. And within the framework of EU rights acquired on transport and imports from the EU or into the EU, it will not contribute anything to our domestic producers, so that, all these regulations and harmonisations, essentially, as we bring here in the Parliament, so the woodworking industry is failing, and in fact, we are the ones who should be the bearers of the woodworking industry. We had people, we had surfaces, we had forests, but the basic question to me is the most respected secretaries for you to take from the trunks of our wood, our wood is produced by a finished product, and to be of extra value, not that our saws are empty, and those who want to deal with the woodworking industry to be braked by the administration and that basically we export our product cheaply. a extra value to someone [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Third country works, sells that product to us. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183743	Thank you. Replication response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183744	Here, thank you for asking Mr. Parliamentarian. Croatian forests as a public forest owner who, in accordance with the Law on Forests, lords of all Croatian state forests is in accordance with its policies making a letter of understanding with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and their association of wood growers. In this way, they jointly arranged the wood mass allocation models for the needs and development of our wood industry with the aim of creating added value in those rural areas where this raw material was actually created.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183745	Representative Vlaovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183746	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. We from HSS and myself are personally that through this law and through the implementation of this Regulation and the EU order is made on the wood market, wood transport and wood products, however, the question remains, if we want to develop the wood industry, then we need to allow as much finalisation of the product in Croatia as possible, not to be carried out by the logs or semi-products, and then it is unclear why in the state budget, in your ministry, innovation support has been abolished, for new technologies in the wood industry, which was up to 80 million kuna in the previous years, and this year only one million kuna in the state budget. This says that we do not need the wood industry, that we will do everything outside the EU and that in the end Spačva in Vinkovci, Slavonia DIV in Slavonski Brod or Spin Valis in Požega we will get enough troops to preserve production and preserve jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183747	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183748	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. I'd be happy to answer this question. Just through the implementation of the wood industry development strategy in order to create added value in wood processing and through a letter of understanding drawn up by the Croatian forests with the wood processing industry, we want to provide sufficient quantities for our finalists and it is precisely in this letter of understanding that the 8th grade of wood processing and processing is ensured that our finalists who produce the most added value in wood processing are providing them with the 100% necessary quantity for their production. It is precisely on this trail that the implementation of this letter of understanding and the discussion of annual competitions with the aim of providing the very wood industry with funds, and as regards the funds for the development of our domestic industry, the Ministry of Agriculture provides funds from our divisions and within the budgetary limit. For this year we have planned a million kunas, however, We will within our limit make redistribution [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] to continue the project. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183749	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. For participation in the debate, the HDZ Representatives Club has signed up. In their name will be spoken by Agent Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183750	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products. As has already been said, these amendments and amendments to the law introduce a new EU Regulation 2010/1010. Art. 6th century 2th subst. Five and eight. The law provides for the obligation to report to the EU Commission on the transport of wood and wood products. This report on imports of wood and wood products from the partner country of Indonesia and third countries into the EU internal market. Also reporting on wood and wood products in the EU internal market. Therefore, this final draft law, instead of two years, provides for the obligation of one-year reporting on imports of wood and wood products from the partner country of Indonesia and third countries to the EU internal market and on the EU internal market itself, as well as formats and reporting methods. In addition, these amendments to the law in parallel with this final... the draft Law has been brought into line with the provisions of Article 4. The Law on the System of State Administration, which no longer determines the division of the central and first-degree authorities of the State Administration, is hereby laid down only by the authorities of the State Administration and, therefore, in Article 6(1), points 1 and 2 of the Act, the word central is deleted. These amendments and additions have three articles, as mentioned between the first reading and the second reading, and neither at the parliamentary bodies, nor in the first reading there have been any significant objections to the Law, and the only change between the first reading and the second reading is that the deadline for the application of the Law moves from 01 January to eight days since the publication in the National Journal. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183751	For participation in the debate, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists of Independent Lists also signed up, according to MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183752	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, I see this proposal that we have received, the addition of the Law implementing the European Union regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, when we talk about wood, about forests, then we are talking about one of the key resources in the Republic of Croatia, strategic resources, but the area in which the state of its own forests is mainly not exploited in the best way, neither the Croatian state nor the economy, and mainly the woodworking or wood industry has any additional value. We can see that when we get to Gorski Kotar, that sawmills where they used to work, where many people worked, where we had from workers to, uh, who turned the log into extra value, from workers, engineers, the most professional people, today it's empty saws, we export examples to Italy, and with them we send these people together. If this is a alignment with the European Union regulations and if this is a solution offered by the Ministry as well as so far, it is a huge problem. Not only that, but in these areas, the demographic fall is the biggest, where are the forests, the most where we have forests, where we should develop extra value from wood, we import furniture from our wood from Italy, and the additional value to which it goes? We're sending our students, here we have had the Parenting Act before, that's about the support, which of course I accept, but it's this National Strategy, a demographic strategy that should be included in your portfolio, and the Ministry of Agriculture's portfolio, where we should all think together about those areas where people used to work. Where they worked and from it wood produced extra value. Today is not the case. Whether we have this Strategy or we don't have, I don't know, I just know that we have restrictions on balvanies, that is, raw materials, when we talk about balvanies, then we talk about wood raw materials, when we have our domestic companies to have limits in quantity, no matter how much work they have. Cubic restrictions. So they have an exact quota, if you fill in the bye-bye. Whether you have export arrangements, do you have, I have these examples that happened in my Dalmatia where people produced examples of palettes or some other furniture, they also had exports, but they couldn't work because they couldn't get raw materials, wood raw materials in the Republic of Croatia, at the same time as trucks, trucks going there, transporting our balvana to Italy, who knows di, along with people. And it's a real state, this isn't a philosophy. I know this is a regulation to regulate the transport of wood, but if we just bring it in and say we've brought it in line with European legislation, then it's pointless. I think we need a general strategy, we manage the woods first of all, because it's an area just, right where the woods are, it's problematic. It's karst mostly areas, of course I'm picking up Slavonia, picking up the whole area, looking for state forests, and I don't see any progress, I don't see any progress in the wood industry, and we're rich in wood, and we have tradition. What is happening here is now a question not only of your work and of your ministry, but of the general economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I will always repeat what is being denied by the Minister of Finance, and Prime Minister Plenkovic who said that these are my backdrops, that it is necessary to fight that 5% of GDP is from abroad, but later in the media it was that 6.6% of GDP is certainly from the abroad of our people who are paying it, and it is probably not, but it is certainly, one part of the people who could be engaged in the woodworking industry in this area. I remember when I was in Gorski Kotar invited to the mayor and the mayor, that I had a press release about the problem of these people, people told me all these problems, we talked about how it lived from woodworking, from the wood industry, how those saws remained empty and how our most professional people went along with the raw materials to produce extra value, a finished product in third countries. The only thing left in Gorski Kotar, then they talked to me, remains this collapsed infrastructure, roads because of the truck, mainly in the winter period, and they didn't have enough resources, and then I kept the press with them, I was with those people all day, with the mayors of the municipalities, with the mayors and the mayors, and I saw that these ends were forgotten. And when we talk about demographics, when we talk about forests as a key resource, first of all, we have to protect, secondly, we're looking at these karst pastures where we go now to forest areas where there were once hundreds and thousands of cattle, cattle of tiny teeth, just like my Dalmatia, it was the sheep's end, the shepherd's end, what my colleague Bacic says I am, that I'm from those parts like him, but he's ashamed, so that's what lived in that area that way. But now it's moving into a ban on breeding and pasture in areas where the Croatian forests are now, I just don't know why it's defending itself, so... what's going to be down in the crumb than the goat, the sheep, which is how people survive in that area, which is a strategy, is not a strategy just to move people. And as for wood production and as far as these acts are concerned, of course it's all the nicest written about imports into the EU on the transport of wood, it's all lipo, wonderful, but I'm interested in what's happening with the Croatian forests, mostly in the state property, of course it's important and what's in private property, so it's a resource where hundreds of thousands of people could have a job, what and directly, and what I'm saying in the areas of Gorski Kotar, in the area of the Krsa, in the area where these raw materials can create extra value and sorrow me that in the area where it was a tradition, where it was tradition and di di we have a high quality raw material, today we have nothing other than to export our raw materials, cheap trade with our old people who have left us, cheap food if there's no additional value, and there's no additional value of life, and there's no more quality, there's a lot of mine, and there's no one that's got to keep a lot of interest in this kind of money, so it's got to go to go to keep it. I was really in Gorski Kotar and I am convinced that in this area of the sea, life with smart policy, with a smart strategy, but obviously there will be a huge profit in the Croatian forests, we have a variety of lobbys, who knows how to do it, exports, how maybe fictional companies open up, there I heard some, fictitious companies open up that they're basically domestic, and basically manufacturers, and basically exports, it stops if there's not going to be labour, there's no people. To this law, I have nothing else to add, this is copying and harmonising with the European Directives, please give one of you as representatives of the Government, so here's a committee that finally says what with the Croatian forests or we'll drink them all and make them all for small money, give and all we've given, impoverish these parts, or we'll have an extra value, something to say, I speak in simple language, means simple language that it's understandable, I don't wrap anything up, but what I saw from the field when I was with the chiefs, what I was with the older people who are retired, who were in the woodworking industry, people are literally crying, private people who are trying to go into private water instead of making it easier for them, to cut their taxes, taxes, taxes, you're making it harder in this area, so in which way we run our forests, it's a key issue, we don't really exploiting our own resources and we don't really destroying our resources, and our resources, and we don't use our most our resources, and our resources, we don't really, we't use our resources, we't really, we't get our money, we't really, we't get our money, we't get our money, but our money, but our money, we't, we't, we's, we't our money, we't our money, we't get our money, we't, we's, we don't, we don't, we don't pay, we don't pay, we don't, we don't do, we don't pay, we don't pay, we don't have nothing, we don't have nothing, we don't have anything, we don't have nothing, we don't have anything, we don't have anything, we don't have anything, we don't have anything, we don't have to pay, we don't have anything, we don't have anything, we don't have to pay, we't have anything, we don', we't have anything else, we't have anything else, we't have to do, we't have to do, we don' Someone's interest is there, if we have wealth, and we have people who know how to do it, so always some import lobbys, so export lobbys, always some lobbys, those vermin, the tribune tribbes, cut off, it's this society's tumor. Therefore, here is simply all the harmonisations that we bring, as well as this harmonisation of the transport of wood with the EU on imports, will not bring us anything if we do not protect our resources in the Republic of Croatia from having certain obligations within the EU, but what is this obligation if we, before we adapt to import lobbys or export lobbys, in this case export lobbys, but on the protection of our population, so in what way are we, we are equal, is this case the same as with agricultural land where foreigners, foreign and legal persons will be able to buy agricultural land, and in the Republic of Croatia, legal and physical persons, Croatian legal and physical persons will not be able to do so, is this equality in the EU? So this government, each government, each of us parliamentary advocates, and the official at any level must primarily protect the Croatian interest, the interest of the Croatian people, and just prescribe EU regulations at any level, the European Commission, the directive, if that's our sole goal in this House and that we are here every day 10-15 to do this machinally and if we do this mainly at a time when the simple public and no eyes are available, why am I talking about the public? The people chose us and we, we must discuss these topics seriously, these are forests, our waters, our seas, so our territorial sea and of course the IGP, that part of international waters and there is agricultural land, these resources are key resources of the Republic of Croatia with energy, with everything we have, and not... On, on, on, on, on import, on export, we import the shrimp, and most qualitatively import, I think that, I think, it's about time to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, this, this, this Law on Transport of Wood and Wood Products, I have nothing to say, this is simply what EU officials wrote to us, what we have to lift up the hand, lift it up, it's agreed, let's be realistic and fair, and as far as the area where it's rich in forests, where we should leave people, the Croatian Government...... my finger is not soft, I've been here in Gorski Kotar which is recognizable by that, finger, so you're not getting your finger off. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are the reasons? Here's the import list, the export lobby. They'd be exporting, they'd be importing. What is quality export cheap is our raw materials, and you import the scissors both in the case of food products, agricultural products, and in this case the tree you export which is the most quality that is made of the most quality products, but our tree is quality. Here, you'd like to read about what I said and think about the ministry and the government in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183753	Stjepan Curaj should speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, since he is not losing his word. The HSS and Democrats Club also appeared to participate in the debate, according to representative Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183754	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the Act amending the amendment of the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products is not some significant change for the Republic of Croatia except for more frequent reporting and harmonisation with EU regulations and legislation. However, the subject, topic and portfolio that is spoken of, and these are Croatian forests is one resort where there is a lot of problems, in which everything except justice, justice and law and the availability of Croatian forests and one of the significant resources in Croatia, which is a tree that is managed in every way. Croatia has 2 million hectares of forests that also have Croatian forest lords. A little over half a million lord forest owners. Private owners. Every year, an extremely large amount of wood is cut. In the previous competition of Croatian forests it was approved to cut and sell 2 million 344 thousand metres of cubic logs, meaning the most valuable part of the tree, and unfortunately, not only do I not know what words I would find, that only 162,000 m3 is a negligible amount ending in the final processing. It is 0.69% of the total amount of logs to be marketed, traded in the Republic of Croatia. With the logs there's another huge part of the bio mass i.e. The rest of the tree we don't know about, not the amount, not the number, not the real buyer where it ended. This bio mass today is a raw material that is also traded to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia because someone else refuses the CO2 quota instead of Croatia. Instead of having plants that produce electricity or heat from Croatian biomass from renewable sources, we simply leave it to neighbouring countries that buy it in Croatia, transport and make very good use of it for some of them. That there is a big mess, that there are interest groups and lobbys in the Republic of Croatia on wood mass I will read one part of the Business Log quote: “According to the first reactions from the ranks of the wood industry, there are good indications that it is going to reduce the ability to manipulate valuable raw materials that have been tied to this competition of Croatian forests for years.” So, this article says that there have been these manipulations, they exist today because not everyone can get the amount of wood logs that he needs for his sawmill or for his processing he already has some can get more, some can't get almost and nothing unless they're similar. The biggest customer, so only one buyer has achieved the right 12,000 m3 of troops, it is almost like all this final production that is done in Croatia. what's being finalized. I ask you if the Croatian forests are state-owned so that they do what they want, that no one wants to see it or that no one can see it and that they are allowed to do what they want or that we will finally consider that wood mass is available to everyone, that the people of the Republic of Croatia are essentially the owners of the Croatian forests, and what is sad about it is that this people can't get to the wood for heating. The heating wood has become a problem for people in rural areas. First of all, his price has jumped drastically in the woods, on a foothill or collapsed, limits have been introduced as much as anyone can get for the heating of their household, so you must have passed the test for a chain saw, for safety, 100 wonders to get you to do your own tree at all. Throughout all this time, both these countries and past people in the countryside and in rural areas have saved a lot by making their own forest heating, using a renewable source, and we are now forcing them to use gas. ... We force them to use a gas that's not a renewable energy source. Which is why in the Republic of Croatia this government does not respect its people. For what? Why doesn't it make it easier for him, why does it always make it difficult for him? In some areas where there were significant forest ingredients, there are no more, there are no more people to come for the tree. The destruction of Croatian forests, not the destruction of unintentionally, but the intentional destruction is increasingly in action every day, we are witnessing the huge areas that have hit the forest areas, Kalnik, Žumberk, Samoborsko gora, Zrinsko gora, Lici, Medvednica, so remember these 27 thousand trees on Marjan, which means 27 thousand trees for Marjan?, an awful lot, in Slavonia, in Posavina, wherever there are valuable centuries of forests. Although a large part of the forest is cut down under the cover of disease, then the disease of Jasna, oak, chestnuts in Banovina and then we have total cutting even though it is not so, but every reason to cut down as much wood as possible is good for Croatian forests, that is to say, those merchants who trade in wood. Unfortunately, Croatian forests disprove all of this and make this people a fool again because they think the people don't see it. But today thanks to social networks, thanks to today that everyone in their hand has a camera, nothing can hide that much more, except that people are scared and scared so that they don't go out with it, but more and more people are gathering courage and showing what's going on with the woods, because forests are very important, both for creating oxygen, and for swallowing CO2, but also for preserving biodiversity. I live in a place like this, on the edge of Lonjsko polje, where I no longer recognize that landscape in Lonjsko polje, I find it difficult to manage because all the forests are cut down, the averages are made first, then the chess board, and then the total cuts behind it. And behind the total cut, there is a growing amorphous which is a dominant plant beneath which the forest almost never or very rarely penetrates and re-forms. If everything seems to be so that as much as possible, I'll prove to you in one example, I've asked a representative question to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture with the question, please give me the information on how much in the past 5 years of agricultural land has been translated into forest land. I receive a letter signed by the current minister, in which the answer is this: “Croatian forests are lords of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and in the past 5 years did not include agricultural land in forest-economic plans, therefore the Ministry of Agriculture does not have data on the re-use of agricultural land in forest land.” And then the second document is the solution of the Ministry of Agriculture in which about 300 hectares of agricultural land in the town of Popovaca, a solution by the Ministry of Agriculture, although this land is owned by the town of Popovaca, is being refurbished into forest land. I'm asking you, is this okay to lie to a parliamentary representative? Whether we are representatives here because someone has chosen us from the people and we have the right to ask questions, but they are also obliged to give us the right and true answers. For me, this is a shameless lie, because the second document of the Ministry of Agriculture disproves this. For what? He disproves the fact that Croatian forests register pastures, every bush found in the field under forest land. For what? To increase the area of forest land to get a larger quota for the cut. And then these 2 million and 344 thousand cubic metres of hulls are growing each year, because the appetites are growing for fast and easy profit because it's the easiest way to cut the logs, fold them and resell them into exports. Who was in Italy, in Lanzan, near Udin, could see large quantities of Croatian oak, Croatian plans there, they are worth processing, they are worth buying in Croatia, and you know how they treat that tree? You can't see in the summer those logs that are complex not to water themselves because if they water themselves, they spill, they shoot, they drop, they take care of what they buy, and we throw it all the way we can. I appeal to the Croatian Government, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to deal with the situation in the Croatian forests, to deal with these, at the very least, strange actions that occur with the trade of troops and other parts that occur as raw materials in the Croatian forests. That it is impossible for us MPs to obtain information, I will also tell you that for a year I have been waiting for an appointment with the President of the Management of the Croatian Forests for a year. It's clear to me that he can't accept me, but isn't that embarrassing? I'm not gonna bite his nose off. Whose man is he? Who's he working for? ... So isn't this the top body of the Republic of Croatia that one of the presidents of the Croatian Forests Administration is so bold and doesn't want a term for a meeting of one representative whom the people have chosen here? This is all about how they treat Croatia, how they treat people's property, how they treat all of us. Of all of us, they make fools, and you see it by all these ministers, by all this property, by all the things that people have acquired, I don't know how, which of them of their wages could have gotten it. And what I've been telling you about the logs is only one part of the dream that swims in the sea, one top, one little tip that pulls everything out of what belongs to the Croatian people, from what should create a improvement for this people, from what could allow these people to stay in Croatia, not to go away. So here we were talking about demographics today, and we're surprised that our 40 grades of children are less than a year old. To be surprised, this is one of your examples. So do you think that today people who have the Internet in their palms, everyone can see what's going on, everyone can read, follow the news, and they're following us here today as we speak. Don't think it's the wind and the word in the blank, people listen to it. Do you think you can paint all these people forever? Said Stjepan Radic, the same people you cheat on will blow you away one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183755	A representative of Gordan Maras, who is not present, appeared to participate individually in the debate. He's losing his right of speech. Representative Miro Bulj also called for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183756	Thank you very much. I am truly sorry that there is no more interest, and I know that this law brings nothing new in terms other than the arrangements for traffic with wood and imports. However, I am sorry that it does not speak much more seriously in this House. Here's a colleague in front of me who said a lot of serious and constructive suggestions. And I would like to hear from you from the government, from you as a proposing from you when you are already giving this law which is essentially just a alignment with EU legislation in implementing certain regulations. All the time we are just talking about directives, but key resources in the Republic of Croatia are absolutely not said to be used in the interest of the survival of people in these areas. I visited this mountain cotter I said along and along, I tried to talk to people, unfortunately people are in the area that remained mostly older and mostly who were engaged or worked in the wood industry. I would ask you to leave the esteemed secretaries, talk to these people, and you will see in their eyes grief, these are people of a more distant age whose children have gone and their grandchildren and cannot possibly accept that this forest, theirs, our Croatian forest of our people, is thus exploited exclusively in the interest of individuals, exclusively in the interest of exports and quality raw materials without which no additional value is created. But I repeat, there were traditional places in Croatian and sawmills, we had people, we had workers, we had engineers, we had this final product and we had extra value. Well, sometimes, in the 1950s and 1960s, people used to go to Gorski Kotar to work in the wood industry or in the woods or in the wood industry. So what's going on, can you explain the secretaries? We enter the EU we have a huge market, we have huge raw materials, we have tradition, so why can't they survive on that market our products, and we have quality raw materials and we have a quality fit? It's a key problem. Well, it wasn't just coming and doing it. A colleague mentioned here earlier that a simple lack of care for forests has led to various diseases, and in most cases he mentioned even Marian, and this is a separate topic, but even the disease is showing doubts that even in these cases he is going to remember to earn and have a huge profit on the damages of our people in the area. And this is really for serious discussion. You in the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia must exclusively, not only refer this to the procedure, read there in the Government how you have brought all the laws in line with the European directive, this sea of everything, everyone can, triba just one good translator and write it down, it's not some problem. In an understandable language, we send a message of hope to people in these areas of hope. This disappointed are the people who worked and worked and depended on the wood industry, which was tens and even hundreds of thousands of people who could survive in these areas, and the message is, give them hope, give them a private person who wants to deal with the wood industry, give him hope of hiring people in this area, an entrepreneur. However, obviously in the Croatian forests it is so much more important to trade in our raw materials and indeed we as parliamentarians if the government does not want it, we will have to by law protect the Croatian forests and survive the man in that area. Here begins the replica, I'd like you all to replicate, mostly who you were there. Were you in sawmills where they used to work hundreds of people? You know what's wrong with machines? They're in the trash. They went for metal raw materials. And now there's hope, where are you? It's gone somewhere, and now it's coming back through the iron to us for the building material of the Peljega Bridge, and it's not probably ours, as it always is. People living on the ruins of Croatian forests block them to work i.e. That the benefits of pastures, and even some imported trees have now begun, I can find names but I'm not that expert but I'm talking real. I'm with these people, people who deal with cattle. The Croatian forests of the other day go after a man so he can't fall for a goat, a cow. I mean, for centuries, traditionally shepherding areas. Dalmatia was named after the shepherds, so the Romans gave us a name, these are the shepherding areas of Dalmatia. We're not ashamed of that. It's not like we're all playing pianos and flutes somewhere, we haven't all had opportunities. We're from these areas, but those areas were the source of human potential, and now they're dead, dead areas, dead. It's a show for me, and we have raw materials. And what does this law mean now, what is the best written? Who's going to explain that to me? I'd like you to stand up, secretary. What did we get by this law? Those who have exported will export what they have imported from our furniture will import and place money in their pocket, and that is the case. So please, please, I expected that after the clubs of interested secretaries to rise up, deny us or confirm that we have a problem. And the problem is huge. The area where Croatian forests manage a large area, rich in forests, and I mentioned earlier that in this area demographic decline, people leave, raw materials are exported for small pairs, domestic producers are boycotted, domestic entrepreneurs who would like to create additional value in Croatia and hire people in these areas, instead of making it easier for them to have a system we absolutely have no strategy. We've become copyists of EU regulations, here, that's all we do here. But we expect the government, of course, from all of us that in these debates regardless, I would like someone to critically attack me freely, to open the debate, not the grave silence. After the day, the election is quick, who will be president of this party, who will they, who will... so who cares? And after us, the sun will shine, gentlemen, MPs and distinguished secretaries and vice presidents of the Parliament, too, and after us the sun will shine. But we're gonna let the people work while we're here in the interest of the people, if that's possible. If it's not possible, then this home is useless. Why do we need a copyist's order? Have them send up to Andrej Plenkovic's fax to the government to confirm what this is going to send to us, what? Tomorrow this vote will pass, unanimously pass, no problem, and that's it. I expect as an agent in those areas where I've been through, I've seen life come back. We've got raw materials, we've got wood, and you're not doing anything about it, and that's the key problem. The first thing that a triba is made to protect our raw materials as strategic, raw materials of our tree, to make our raw materials of this balvana an additional value in the Republic of Croatia and with that additional value to bring people back to work first and to create additional value, and then you export it. Not these import regulations, on exports that regulate some kind of a wider market. And as for Croatian citizens, Croatian peoples will have individuals in their pockets who will spend most of the money, of which the Croatian state has absolutely nothing. And of course, the forests are important in this matter, and the tribune protects them and protects them in terms of the environment, landscapes, clean air, and all the things that come together by the forest itself, and they'd talk about it in a different way. However, I expect once again that the areas of the Croatian forests will soon be filled with life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183757	Time's up. Thank you. Representative Lipoščak has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183758	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I can say that in fact in the global world I can agree with some of your conclusions, but I ask you that when we talk about this problem, we talk about both terms and some kind of terminology. First of all, say that Croatian forests are about trade and profit and we talked about exports. Croatian forests do not export wood raw materials as a company, meaning all raw materials of Croatian forests from state forests ends with domestic wood growers. Then you export it. Who are we, who are you? So Croatian forests are lords of the state-owned forests, and as such they do not export wood raw materials but sell it to domestic wood growers. They're the ones who are exporting. We are talking about the final product, the Croatian Forests and the Association of Woodrawers signed a letter of understanding that is now being forced by finalists. Not the same final product finished parquet, palette or logs and here I agree with you, but let us be aware that the demand for wood is much higher than the offer and this resource is not huge but is limited and... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183759	Time's up, please. Please just keep an eye on the time you've been given. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183760	Thank you very much for your constructive replica. I may have made a mistake somewhere, my every word is not sacred, but I want to discuss it. And I want to be sure here that when it comes to Croatian forests, there are no fictitious companies that are open as domestic and huge cubes for products in the Republic of Croatia, and they basically export and have huge money. I want to be sure of that and it's as a parliamentary representative of me important, I think, and a key question. How many of our trees go, here, a question through fictitiously open companies that work in Croatia, and basically just serve to transport our raw materials out? It's a question at the table because the wood industry is behind us. To the extent that the balvana is cut, it is exported in various ways under the grain, and we need to discuss it, and who would they, who would like in that area... to open jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've talked to these people, maybe I'm wrong about something, but I want a constructive one. A debate about this thing. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183761	Thank you. Representative Felak has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183762	Dear colleague Bulj, I agree with you that we should guard the forests and that the forests are one of our main natural resources and in every way should protect it and use it as properly as possible. So there's no, you're going in, you're going into some contradictions, on the one hand you said you should keep the forest, you don't need to cut it, and on the other hand you're saying that the wood industry gets as much raw materials as possible, it just doesn't go one way or the other, but you need to find some balance between both sides being as satisfying as possible, both the foresters and the wood industry. I'm just going to give you one particular piece of information because you've said a lot of things on a flat-rate basis, and very little of it in particular. The Croatian wooden industry employs around 10% of the total employees in Croatia. Also, in the last year, data from month 1 to month 11, furniture production, meaning domestic wood industry increased by 8.1%. I think they're indicators of praise and that they show that the wood industry It's going in the right direction, but it does [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Inadequacies, that's for sure. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you, time is up, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183763	I mean, the next time the Rules of Procedure changes, go back to two minutes if you need more. You've raised your hand in one minute and now you're exceeding the limits of time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183764	Thank you very much. My colleague, you work in the Croatian forests and you certainly know better those fictitious companies that get the balvanies, if they exist, I have heard that they exist. I expected that, the problem may be fictitious companies that as domestic get our balvanies, as domestic producers, and export them out. And that's where they get a huge subsidy to those logs and that's how they destroy the woodworking industry. Any positive shift, I commend. But the fact that I was in the Gorski Kotar, where it lived from the wood industry, that absolutely extinct final production. And that's the problem. I expect you to tell me, to protect the forests, however, they are not protected, but as our key resource they must serve for development in this area. Because we have, we should have people to preserve, we have resources, we have means, we have that potential to preserve, not sell into waste sawdust machines.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183765	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Loncar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183766	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bull. As I come from a region where I have opportunities daily to see domestic producers bringing finished final products to large shopping centres and beyond, right from Croatia and almost sold to all our population, I also have the opportunity to see how our final products from our exporting producers are also exported, out there as a quality product and not all as black as you say and I have the knowledge that perhaps the quantities of wood needed by our producers are less, if that is the case, then we should discuss it and allow our people to get as much wood as necessary for the very quality production of furniture and other products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183767	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183768	Nothing's black and white. I ask, all the time, how much is the domestic producer, who guarantees and whether there is a company, here I ask you a question, to all parliamentary representatives, to the secretary, to everyone who listens to this, whether there is perhaps a company in Croatia that is being run in Croatia, registered as domestic producers, and balvana with subsidies, i.e. our raw materials, essentially exports to other countries? It might be a key question to see if everything's that great. Here's to check out the competent institutions in which they manage wood, and as far as production is concerned, of course I'm overjoyed, they have in me, in my neighborhood of smaller producers, there's a bigger producer, there's a man who employs over 70, 80 people, and that's the biggest company, unfortunately, in the area of the town of Sinja, and I wish them all the best. They have the highest quality final furniture product. These others are made with palettes. I'm proud of these people, but it's holding them back, remember well, import from our raw materials. [[/Intruder Petrov: Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183769	Representative Bulj. For individual participation in the debate also signed up, Tomislav Liposjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183770	Thank you, Vice President. So here is the proposal to amend the laws that further comply with European legislation. With EU legislation and, in fact, as heard in the opening statements, there is nothing to be disputed about. However, I can't help thinking that whenever we talk about such topics, when we talk about topics of forestry, forest management, forest management, there are very often statements that are confusing, which at least don't send verified information, and very often can confuse those who listen to us. Although I often talk about this in this House of Highs, I would repeat once again that almost half of our country's land surface is under forests and forest land. Croatian forestry, or organised forest industry in Croatia, has a tradition that is more than 250 years long. And more than 90% of our forests, or, more specifically, 95% of our forests are natural, it is naturally grown unlike many Europeans who are not. In Europe, it is precisely because of the intense exploitation of this natural forest that has been replaced by rapidly growing species, monocultures that are much more sensitive and that are ecologically quite unstable, or more unstable than these naturally grown, or natural ones, and that is precisely our wealth. Starting from our rich tradition of forestry as a profession, then the Faculty of Forests in Zagreb, which, every year, actually puts experts out on the labour market...... who may be more esteemed in Europe and in the world than in us and that is also the reason why every year and many delegations, delegations from Europe, come from the world to learn from us, to see how we do it and how we actually do it all these 250 years. The fundamental principles of Croatian forestry are just the necessary management by preserving the natural structure and diversity of our forests. Forests and forest land, although we can often hear different tones here, different interpretations are not managed without supervision. On the basis of the economic basis and of the programmes, these are the basics and programmes that are adopted on the basis of the profession for a period of 10 years and in which the management of forests, cultivation, cultivation and exploitation are detailed. For centuries, we have actually ruled in Croatia by the principles of sustainability or sustainability and because, among other things, less wood is taken from the forest than it grows. And that's why I say, in this very high home, we can often listen to apocalyptic statements, stories of those who are, for example. We've been listening to this today, perhaps passing through Slavonia, we've seen certain cut parts of the forest, and then we're talking about devastation, destruction, negligence and similar things. That's exactly where we're wrong, because that's exactly what we're talking about, so let's call it, it's a young forest. It is a young forest that is only a few years old and these young oak plants cannot grow, cannot develop under the age of old trees, in the shadow of old trees, and therefore after 100, 140 years, after these trees reach their maturity they are removed and space is given to 1,000, million new young plants to go through their predecessors. And that might be on our first hand and it looks weird, but it doesn't happen on the whole surface. This may look like a larger area at firsthand, but it is just regulated through the basics of management in a way that allows for the necessary management so that during a certain period of time in the economic unit on several surfaces parallel to one area of growing, on one surface we find medium-term ingredients, on the other we find mature ingredients and this cycle lasts for many years. I'm saying here's the particular thing about a nut oak. That cycle lasts 140 years. And that's what Croatian forestry has been doing for 250 years, and that's exactly why we have these preserved natural forests and this percentage. We call this kind of management a regular mastery. As far as the Gorski Kotar Forests we've been talking about here today, the situation is different. There we rule in a different way, it's a combative management, or a combative way where every few years we separate individual mature trees and thus we open both the light and the space of the rejuvenation that lies beneath them. The letters and meals are the species that are mostly located in those areas that allow it. In fact, I would not say or allow it, but they dictate such a way of management, and therefore these forests may, firsthand, look exactly the same without any major changes, despite the fact that they are derived within a certain time frame or obtained almost identical wood mass or wood raw material as in these forests in which they are managed regularly. So our own way of management is dictated by the kinds of trees that grow here, or the kinds of trees that we master and their biological characteristics. Why am I saying all this? Well, here's simply for the reason that we are already, we can say it slowly becomes and too much to repeat ourselves from every debate in the debate with these things, to fight in certain statements and comments, and so I'm going to ask once again not to put into the same basket and forestry and forestry and forestry industry with the woodworking industry, with predators, with wood processors, with carriers and with their problems and so on. The forest profession is the aim of the need for management. So through cultivation, care, management primarily according to postulate professions. So I appeal, when we talk about a problem in this sector, let's be precise. Let's not talk in general, let's not talk casually, and let's not spread ourselves lightly to qualifications and adjectives who, when going from this meeting to the outside, can act quite confusingly. I will repeat the distinction between forestry and wood industry, the distinction between private and state forests and the competences in them. That everything is ideal in this sector is probably not, not likely but certainly not and will probably never be as ideal as in all other branches. But instead of these general stories and populism, let's detect clear and loud problems, let's call them real names and last names so we don't come into these situations anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183771	Representative Felak called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183772	Dear colleague Lipoščak, you have indeed been professionally and adequately explaining the state and the forestry and the wood industry and everything that is done and how it is mastered by Croatian forests, whether they are state-owned forests, whether they are privately owned. Whoever wanted to understand it is understood I believe, and whoever doesn't want to understand it will never accept it that it is so and will always speak its kind of truth which clearly is never supporting any concrete data. But I'm going to ask you a clean one to explain a little what happened on Marjan in a few words and why it was necessary to cut down part of Marjan Forest Park in Split because the waist was behind it, and it was a final measure of what was least desired because of the attack, because of the pest attack to save at least that part of the forest that could be saved, to stop the spread of the disease and to parallelly resuscitate and restore the surface of Marjan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183773	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183774	Here, my colleague, Felak, I thank you for the constructive replica and right now the Marjan Forest Park which we mentioned today in earlier discussions, that I am not going into too many professional terms, the layman's language has caused the disease and the trees of course had to be removed as is the case everywhere in plant diseases. What I would like to stress here is that the forest waist may have listened earlier, and that it started earlier, i.e. the extent of that damage and that disease would definitely be much smaller than it is. Why didn't it go into it, probably because of the atmosphere that is so that whenever it goes into some kind of cutting, everyone gets on their feet, let's listen to the profession, I said it in my presentation, we use professional terms, we listen to the profession and we do what is prescribed, we do what Croatian forestry has been organised for 250 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183775	Representative Sasa Djujic also reported for individual participation in the debate, since he has no loss of speech. This concludes the debate, it will be voted when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183776	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU rules on the transport of wood and wood products, second reading, P.Z.R. No. 769, the applicant is the Government, the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 113 for and 1 abstentions have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of EU rules on the transport of wood and wood products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183777	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Chemical Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 814 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 814 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary Zeljko Plazonić, Ministry of Health, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183778	Yeah, I think you've heard me without a microphone, so this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act is being adopted for the purpose of discharging, especially economic operators, and in this particular case, it is legal and physical persons who carry out activities with dangerous chemicals, and it is proposed to delete the provisions on the obligation to carry out authorisation to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals, but what is very important, without changing any conditions for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. In the event of suspension of this obligation to grant that authorisation to economic operators, in particular legal and physical persons carrying out this activity with dangerous chemicals, it would, above all, reduce the financial burden associated with the start of the activity and thus speed up the start of the activity and, in view of the data analysed for 2018. by the Ministry of Health issued 360 solutions to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals we can conclude how much this would benefit our, our subjects who want to master dangerous chemicals. An amendment to the provisions of the organisation of knowledge acquisition on the protection of dangerous chemicals, and the implementation and verification of knowledge on protection against dangerous chemicals will allow the acquisition of knowledge, such as the acquisition of knowledge of protection from dangerous chemicals, to acquire sufficient knowledge that will practically be carried out by HZZZ. Provisions on the powers of competent sanitary inspectors are also amended, especially in the part of the ban on carrying out activities without meeting the prescribed conditions, and clearly all in order and purpose of protecting the health of our citizens and protecting the environment, here is so, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183779	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If I don't open the debate then, the club that applied to participate in the discussion of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak for them by Agent Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183780	The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article. 2st century 4th subst. 1. The Constitution of the Republic In order to protect human life and health, and to protect the environment from the harmful effects of chemicals, the chemical products shall be subject to conditions which must be met by legal and natural persons for the performance of the production, placing on the market and use of chemicals, and the conditions for the provision of service or brokerage services in which no direct, direct contact with chemicals occurs. The Chemical Act has been amended in 2018. for the implementation of the reform measure under the 2018 National Reform Programme in order to ensure a prerequisite for the start of the work of the State Inspectorate or to take over inspection tasks from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health. In relation to the current Chemical Act, the legislative proposal proposes to amend or supplement certain provisions in order to comply with new rules in the field of chemicals adopted at EU level. These are provisions concerning the authorisation of activities with dangerous chemicals, provisions on the organisation of knowledge acquisitions of dangerous chemicals, the implementation and verification of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals, provisions concerning the placing on the market of certain categories of dangerous chemicals, and provisions on certain inspection powers of sanitary inspectors in relation to the prohibition of carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. For the purpose of discharging economic operators, in the specific case of legal and natural persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals, the legislative proposal is to delete the provisions on the obligation to carry out the authorisation to carry out activities with dangerous chemicals, but without amending the conditions for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. The withdrawal of the obligation to grant that authorisation to economic operators, in particular legal and physical persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals, would reduce the financial burden associated with the start of renewal of the activity and speed up the start of the activity, and given that 360 solutions for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals were issued by the Ministry of Health under the analysis for 2018. Conditions for carrying out the production, placing on the market and use of dangerous chemicals in relation to space, employee equipment remain unchanged. The supervision of legal and physical persons carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals shall continue to be carried out by the sanitary inspector of the State Inspectorate. By amending the provisions on the organisation of knowledge acquisition of protection against dangerous chemicals, the implementation and verification of knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals, the Croatian Institute of Public Health will be able to acquire knowledge of protection against dangerous chemicals. The provisions on the powers of competent sanitary inspectors, in particular in the part of the ban on carrying out activities without meeting the prescribed conditions, are also amended, in order to protect human health and the environment. This law in Croatian legislation adopts EU directives and EU acts of parliament and councils. Therefore, as regards the education of the protection of workers, the compulsory health checks before the start of work and the control periodic checks, the conduct of the eyewitnesses, etc., remains as in the Chemical Law, which has been in force since 1.1.2019. The proposal for a law deletes the power of the Minister of Health to adopt a Regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous chemicals where that topic is no longer regulated by the national Regulation but by direct application of the EU Regulation of the Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on classification, packaging, labelling of substances and mixtures. Certain terms within the meaning of this law have the following meanings. So chemicals are substances and mixtures. Dangerous chemicals within the meaning of this law are substances and preparations that meet the criteria for physical hazards, health hazards or the environment laid down by the EU Community Directive. European lists of harmful substances and international lists of harmful substances to be implemented in the Regulation are also used. Production is the production and processing, design, processing, filling, streaming, mixing of chemicals into intermediate products and final products with chemical, physical and biological processes and processes, as well as the transfer and inter-storagement within the production site. Production within the meaning of this point is considered to be the production of substances and mixtures. The manufacturer is a legal and natural person who makes the chemical, but also any other person who works, repacks or changes its name for further use. The name change is not considered to conduct the term "chemicals" in Croatian. The placing on the market is import, import, purchase and sale of chemicals to small and large and intermediation. The placing on the market of chemicals is also considered to be a delivery, i.e. at the disposal of the chemical 3rd person with a fee or free of charge. Imports are considered to be placing on the market. Imports are any introduction of chemicals into the EU customs territory. The entry is any introduction into the territory of the Republic of Croatia from another EU Member State. Exports are any exports of chemicals outside the customs territory of the EU. The importer is a legal or natural person who, in order to carry out its registered activity, imports chemicals from the EU. The exporter is a legal and natural person who, in order to carry out the registered activity, exports of chemicals outside the EU, use and processing, formulation, consumption, storage, holding, processing, filling in tanks, moving from one container to another, mixing, production of products or any other use, storage within the meaning of this point, keeping chemicals under the prescribed conditions. Chemicals in general use are substances and mixtures of different uses placed on the market and their end-user or user and the possibility of buying and using them, and are neither limited to quantitative nor any specific requirements in relation to end-user or buyer. The provisions of this law shall not apply to: radioactive substances and preparations which are regulated by specific regulations, substances and mixtures shall be subject to customs supervision in which they are located in a temporary warehouse in a free zone, in a free warehouse for re-export or in transit provided that they are not subject to processing or processing. Substances and mixtures for scientific research and development and quality control of products and other analytical purposes which are not placed on the market, provided that they are used in controlled conditions in accordance with specific rules governing the protection of the workplace and the protection of the environment, waste which is regulated by specific regulations, hence plant protection products other than classification, production, delivery of the safety technical list, chemicals used for defence purposes, explosive substances which are regulated by specific regulations, mineral fertilisers determined by specific regulations, drugs and their pre-arranged regulations. The provisions of this law shall not apply to substances and mixtures in the final form intended for the end-user, such as medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products, cosmetic products, medical products, food and food for animals, including food additives, flavourings, animal food additives in accordance with specific rules. The provisions of this law shall not apply to the transport and transport of chemicals by airway in rail and postal transport and inland waterways. The provisions of this law shall not apply to chemicals covered by the Convention prohibiting and destroying the development, accumulation and use of chemical weapons. For the implementation of this law, financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 shall be provided. and projections for 2021 and '22, and there is no need to provide additional funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183781	I thank my esteemed colleague Kirin for this thorough law-reading. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183782	Thank you very much. Here I would like to introduce the Secretary-General, this Chemical Act, I just wanted to say that I put into the process what's on the issue, which means what's used in agriculture, and that's the glyphosate Austria has already banned, the EU is talking about, the situation, Mrs. Glyphosate. The Minister of Agriculture says that it is not for the ban on glyphosate, I do not know the state of the Ministry of Health, but I expect that this law will come here for debate is a huge problem, and the chemicals produced today, and the companies which and GMOs, I have given to GMOs for the second time, about the ban on GMOs in the Republic of Croatia except for medical purposes, it is also for the first time not accepted, it is exclusively related to these dangerous chemicals, of course, that chemicals in this century and the last century have advanced, we know how much this impact on all spheres of life, mainly in the sphere of agriculture, and that in some parts of the world there is no longer controlled production and interest, in one part it was perhaps positive, and in the other part it has become so much a threat to human health and the environment, literally no more bees, and we know what they are in the environment and in general life. So, I'm going to mention this important thing one more time, so if the EU does. Parliament is discussing this as very important, and I think that a single view of this government would matter, and that lobbyists have done a lot of work, even they have so much of it, and by establishing, so when it is done, it means causing it. The laboratory surveyed a large number of people in the EU and 90% of people in the urine has traces of glyphosate used mainly in the production of soybeans and other agricultural products, and otherwise used for other things, so that in the United States, and other countries, we have a large, large number of complaints from people who have been ill regardless of this part of which this law and regulation, it is this protection, the protection education that is very important, people are, regardless of what they used protection and all the products that Monsanto and similar companies that are now bound to Bayer and many others who have already been bound by now, whether it is an interest to control the seeds, and also these chemicals that they have the simple resilience of their, their seeds, i.e.e. Their plants the sudden fossil is huge, so they just want to take control, and that's why the triba think, I know there's a seed bank in the Republic of Croatia, but I think the tribal, here's when we talk a little bit and out of this topic, but I think we're thinking in this direction about protecting the lives of our people and the one that uses the products of glyphosate, everyone knows when we're cidocor, I'm going to use a simple language, something to pour the grass, what's behind the cidocor, nothing, we see when we pour the grass and someone plant a cidocor, there's no troscott, there's no troscott again, the weed weed weed weed, but when you're the secretaries from my end you know how many trims of the gliphosate absolutely it means there's no trace, it's a black earth. Therefore, if Austria could donate, means their parliament, the Lower House, prohibit this substance, I see no reason, and in the Union, the EU, we are equal, why should we be contaminated. As far as these prescription provisions are concerned, the use of chemicals, the production of chemicals, I think that the triba be terribly cautious, the triba stick literally to anything, is it harmful to the environment and to the water, especially with these, when it comes to disposal, I don't know how much control there is, but I know that even those toxins are being thrown into mixed municipal waste. chemicals, I will consider them under these dangerous substances are thrown and they are simply delayed in nature in a place where water is permeable, which is connected to sources, and we see that our great fighters for air, nature, ecology, I see that they have also performed, to see that they are building on Lečevica this CGO, so let them accidentally delay something like this, so that it will end up in Jadra, Žrnovnica, Cetina, in Krka which is otherwise in a chaotic this in a major environmental problem, Zrmanja in an even bigger ecological problem, I think that chemicals are what you as a ministry of tributes have to educate as much through and together with the Ministry of Education and Youth on the dangers, that we are trying to protect agriculture and I am aware that in this century we are seeking organic production, organic production, organic production, we have a lot of raw land, 700 000 hectares we have an unprocessed target of agriculture, which would be less. I am aware that the favour of competition was such, so people simply couldn't protect so many areas, but by treating them with chemicals, today this other production, ecological, preserved production, much more important, so that the tribal would be the government along with the ministry, with you the Ministry of Agriculture is not clear to me now whether you are for glyphosate as a representative of the Ministry of Health if the Minister of Agriculture said that there was no problem with glyphosate, and in Austria is the problem, Austria has banned glyphosate. Why? Are we talking again, the Monsanta lobbyists, the American company that produced weapons of war, it has now been reregistered in the last 70 years, and in the use of this glyphosate, it has changed to the production of chemicals and, of course, that America and the Americans and their multinational companies that have committed themselves to and with corporations pharmaceuticals, have now also connected with pharmaceutical industries, master the market and their seeds and their chemicals that are being treated and that is one serious issue that we are trying to discuss, and also in the European Parliament, in the European Commission, and we see that both EU members like Austria defends that. I would like to see your attitude, known to you by these regulations, this is a directive, this is a harmonisation, protection, use, production, disposal, but the sanitary inspection will control it, but I know it in reality, that in reality it might end up where it doesn't matter, the waste, that rest of the chemicals end up where it wouldn't end, I know it for sure, in waterproof areas, in areas where we have bees, where, meaning we have one problem environmental and health and because of that and is essentially this regulation harmonising the law to protect it all, but we need to be threatening, exclusively speaking because of the preserved environment, we're still as much, we live in the most sensitive part of Europe and the world, the Republic is the best and the three most prospective of all, regardless of what is happening now demographic breakdown, but it's demographic, this breakdown, I know that it's the most important part of what we have to say is that we've got to the most important part of the sea and the coastal part of the sea, so we can're going to say that we can're the sea and we can't be sure that we can't be sure that we can't we can't be sure that we't we can't we can't we can't be sure that we't we't we can't't't't't't't't we't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't', we't', we can', we can', we can', we can', we't', we can', we', we can't't't't', we can', we't get't see't see't see't see't be't't't see't be', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we can', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we', we' of'''''''''''' At this point, we have neglected agriculture, but we have 7, I repeat 700,000 hectares of preserved, fellow and colleagues, land, agriculturally preserved ecologically, and we have to ban this glyphosate, it simply imposes on us as production ecologically we have tourism, I believe that you from the Ministry of Health will give support and recommend to the prime minister and other ministers that this bill that I have already sent has a few months, unfortunately the government's indication is negative, but if the government is hard to accept it, and then the parliament can accept, if the Austrian Parliament has not seen any reason not to accept our parliament to protect itself from this gliphosate poison where, unfortunately once again, in America, the judicial processes are even lost because, regardless of what people have used legal protection, it is so dangerous by health, it's more than you know, I're an expert, what I can read from the media, of course, that we've been able to look at all the same level, and we'll be safe, because we can be safe, because we can be safe, because of the GMO that we can be safe, because we can't gmo, we can't we can't we can't do the g. in tourism, unfortunately we now import soy and meat i.e. Porcine which used soybeans and fed and fed on glyphosate i.e. with what has been treated with glyphosate, and this also affects health and this also affects the costs of the Ministry of Health. With the consumption of such food products in essence that we cannot control, what is imported from Hungary, and treated with glyphosate and fed, cattle are fed mainly pork is fed by it, affects our health, I see that there is an increased number of tumors, and we have an area, I think I am sorry that we defend, and this is no longer controlled by this meat which is contaminated by glyphosate and other chemicals and what we do not have to say the production of pigs in my Dalmatia and Slavonia is no longer Dalmatian ham, the only thing that goes by the way down and what is possibly drying, which is all the consequences of a broad policy, it cannot be solved by this law I am aware of, but one clear policy of the Ministry of Health that will point to food harmfulness which is treated and the difference of this organic food, I think that would be harmful to do so well in terms, if I were to be able to do it to do well in terms and to make good things with agriculture, and to do it, to do well, and to do well, to do well with the de- the areas with these chemicals and the ones that feed on, with this food and which are contaminated because it simply leaves demographic people in the area, we produce healthy food, we have and I don't see any reason why we wouldn't agree on this if the other members of the EU, I said the example of Slovenia, I agreed, and all of what is prescribed inside is, of course, the EU directive, as I said from the manufacturer, the use, all of which, the delays, all of which are prescribed ok, and we'll fill it out just so we'll tell the EU here we've met it, while at the same time we've got a dump di delaying communal waste, so there's certain that, if we check it at the Vrgorak dump, it's mixed and communal waste, we're carrying it in trucks older 20. to Sinj, 120km in the same sanitary conditions, therefore, it will leak along the way I think someone will touch the baby with their hand or in some way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we protect the health, production and survival of these people by banning what they defend and others, in this case it is a glyphosate, I have given the most respected secretaries, distinguished colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, more than a few months and the Law on the ban on glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia, I hope that, if not this conference, the next call on this or someone in the future who is here from us that the next parliamentary representatives will in this way think, and not as Minister, this Vukkovic, who says that it is not the problem of glyphosate, Austria is the problem, the European Parliament is almost most of the problem, is considering banning '23, and our Ministry of Agriculture is not. So it's not enough just to pass the law, the triba protection strategy from this, of course, to find the best optimal measure, and if we find that measure and protect together and health and production and the environment, people's health, then we've done a job, and otherwise, I don't think there's any results unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183783	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to individual debates, a colleague of Gordan Maras is not present, do you want a colleague of Bulj individually?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183784	Here's just this one question here to take advantage of...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183786	...thank you very much, I won't be long in general if the dream said everything I had to say on behalf of the club. I'm interested in the position of the honourable secretary of the ministry, Secretary of State, is the last time I was warned by a fellow chairman that I am a secretary, not but a secretary of the assembly, a respected secretary of state, Minister Vukkovic said that she does not, she is not to be banned from the glyphosate. What is your position and the Ministry of Health, is purely compared to what is happening in the European Parliament, in the European Commission, we know of certain lobbying, and we know as I said in the name of the club that in Austria, the House of Commons, banned the use of glyphosate, that, and that substance, so I would ask you to say, but if it is a minister of agriculture for, which for me is a disaster, what you say as the Ministry of Health, is this a healthy spray with this, is this healing, is that it encourages the bees on better ice, for a better flight, for better bear production, for a better quality, it would be my question when you say that the birds sing better when you say time, whether maybe rabbits grow better when you get better with it, that they have better food, which you think about glyphosat as substances, here would be my point, this would be my particular question when you're talking about chemicals, but when you're talking about the key to the key to the key that you're going to the key that you're going to the key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183787	Thank you. Dear fellow Djujic, not present, final word on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State, Mr Zeljko Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183788	Thank you very much, here I have to answer at least to say a few sentences for the simple reason that, in my opinion, as a man who works in the ministry and who sometimes has to perform publicly, there are no worse things than to scare our citizens with certain statements that have not been proven either in any way, especially in a scientific way. What's this about? First, if we're talking about glyphosate, so that's the product that's been placed on the market worldwide called roundup by Monsanto, and that was before 40 years ago, in other words, that herbicide is being used around the world, so probably in our area somewhere around 40 years ago, currently in the Republic of Croatia is registered 20 herbicides which, in a larger or smaller percentage among others as an active substance of action on the weeds has a glyphosate, that's one thing. The second thing, it would not be good to talk to Monsato because it would be very offensive to Bayer who bought that company a few years ago and that name as such was abandoned in the business world and this company is today called Bayer, German Bayer. On the other hand, what may be very important, we in Croatia have for years meant all of these 40 years all herbicides with a certain percentage of glyphosate content are used far the most in viticulture and fruit growing. In other words, it is a preparation of herbicide that is used at a certain stage of the weeds in vineyards and fruit growing, meaning that neither with grapes nor with the fruit species of herbicide as such comes into contact. On the other hand, we conducted one survey, not us, but the Ministry of Agriculture ahead of a time where we asked the winemakers' associations and the fruitmakers' associations if they were to get glyphosate or herbicides with glyphosate content out of use and they were all unique and they said it would not be smart at all or acceptable on their part. On the other hand, what is very important again is that the people know in 2017, after a unilateral, unilateral ban on Austria to use all herbicides that contain a certain percentage of glyphosate in the European Parliament or in the EU, a vote has been held on whether or not that herbicide is banned in all the countries of Europe, because you know that we must act as a member of Europe as most European countries are particularly European countries within the Union, especially when all decisions at EU level must be made in principle by consensus. Then there were 18 counter 7 votes with Croatia being, 18 were for glyphosate, and 7 were against the use of glyphosate and among those 7 countries we were like Croatia. So we voted in the European Parliament against the use of glyphosate in herbicides. After that, one rule was adopted that by 2020, more precisely by 1 December 2022, it could be used in EU countries, and then, in that period, the countries that were given the right to be rapporteurs on the results of their research through the control and the results of the controls of herbicides on their own will definitely reach a conclusion at EU level on whether or not they will be completely banned or restricted, etc. What is very, very important to you today is a chemical substance in principle poison, but it's always important, and even water can be poison to you, only that dose is used. So far, for 40 years, we have not proved in any case as health professionals that any malignancies have developed exclusively as an etiological disease from the action of any Herbicides, and mainly glyphosate. So we don't have this scientific evidence, we don't have these scientific studies that would somehow justify such a decision to us, and since it doesn't have the EU either, then we have to act in accordance with what all countries, the majority countries of Europe or I say, I repeat, Austria is the only one who has made an independent decision to ban the use of glyphosate. Here, I still have a lot to talk about when it comes to usefulness, not usefulness, carcinogenicity, not carcinogenicity, it's only one fact if we're going to look at it this objectively, if it's a herbicide that's been used for 40 years, so for 40 years, many malignancies have been extremely rare and have not been so represented in the matter of enlargement among our citizens. Today we have a great increase in malignant diseases, we have a great projection of the increase in malignant diseases in the coming years, and it would be very good if we had only one etiological moment. Then we would solve with this etiological moment all the future of developing malignancies. Unfortunately, malignancies are multifactorial, a whole series of elements play a role, and then attribute only one, and not a proven means simply wouldn't be scientifically justified, and being exclusive in the EU wouldn't be politically justified by me. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183789	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183790	Thank you very much. Well, you haven't said anything new, you've just repeated what I said Austria brought, to discuss glyphosate in the EU as what needs to be banned. I will because I have only a minute of time to send all the court disputes that occur in the United States because of the diseases that have been proven to be due to the use of glyphosate i.e. as you have said for 40 years, of course, that which is, all of which is historically clear and I will send everything to you and what the World Health Organization says about glyphosate, which is why, you did not tell me here how crucial it is to how much meat imported used for the seeds that are fed, pork here, fed with this soybean shotgun where treated surfaces with glyphosate have been proven to be a huge concentration of glyphosate and contamination in that seed in other countries where pork is produced. So indirectly, through pork and imports, our people consume it. and it affects health. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183791	Thank you. I am concluding the debate, thanking the Secretary of State Mr. Zeljko Plazonic and his associate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183792	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 814. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act and 2. Any comments and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 109 for, 5 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183793	We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2018 The holder of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 6. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. Here's your pal, Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183794	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, for asking for a break on behalf of the Club of Independent Youth List of 15 minutes for the death of Kristijan Vukasovic. Young Christian Vukasovic's life has been extinguished by an unscrupulous prison system, no one has answered. I personally sent a parliamentary question to the minister of justice, but the minister of justice does not see the problem in the prison system although many indications suggest that there was a lot of illegality and that Christian was actually the victim of an unscrupulous prison system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183795	Thank you, Mr. Schibol. This sad tragic event took place in 2019, and this is the 2018 report, but it doesn't matter. Is there anyone else who wants to take a break? I'm setting a break by 17.50. It's 5:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.50 HOURS]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Gender Equality. I would like a representative of the motionary, respected Secretary of State Juru Martinovic, to give us an explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183797	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of you, the Government's report to the Parliament on the situation in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2018. Legal capacity in 2018 in penitentiary and prisons is intended for the accommodation of 3900 prisoners of which in closed conditions 2890 places in semi-open 725 and in open conditions 285 places. During 2018, 11352 prisoners and minors of different formal statuses passed through the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, which is 0.2% higher than in 2017 when they were 11.329. In view of the gender in the prison system, male prisoners dominate 95% of female inmates who make up 5%. This trend in gender over the years is relatively stable. Prisoners in prison during 2018 were held in the prison system of 4119 prisoners, representing 36% of the total number of prison population in 2018 in the prison system compared to 2017, we record only a slight decrease of slightly less than 1%. The length of the sentence, the largest group of prisoners on 31.12.2018, 31.6% maintains a prison sentence between one and three years. On 31.12.2018, the largest group of prisoners is between 30 and 40 years old and 32% and between 40 and 50 years old, making up 23% of the total population. A total of 17 prisoners are over 18 years old and under 21 years old, which makes up less than 1% of prisoners in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia in 2018. During 2018, a total of 4465 prisoners of the number 320 were women of 7.1%. Inmates who have been given a measure of prison investigation compared to the total number of prisoners during 2018 account for as much as 39.33%. During 2018, 224 prisoners were held more than during 2017, an increase of 5.2%. During 2018, 90 persons were placed at a prison hospital in Zagreb, where the court ordered an investigative prison under Article 551 are innumerable persons, the Law on Criminal Procedure, to adopt a valid solution to forced accommodation for treatment. The prisoners of foreign citizens on 31.12.2018 were in the prison system a total of 389 persons, 368 men and 21 women who are not Croatian citizens. Out of the total number of foreign citizens, 76 are EU citizens while the other 313 are not EU citizens. The above data show a trend in a significant increase in foreign citizens almost 73% compared to their number on 31.12.2017, when there were a total of 225 non-Croatian citizens in the prison system. This increase was largely conditioned by the migrant crisis, which significantly increased the number of crimes committed by human trafficking or illegal investment, movement and residence in the Republic of Croatia. During 2018 there were 76 minors and 13 minors at the Educational Institute and at the end of 2018 there were 38 minors and 6 minors. In 2018, there were 17 minors and no minors. On 31.12.2018, there were 8 minors on the execution of the sentence of juvenile prison. Penalties are persons who support the prison system of criminal punishment. During the 2018 prisons, a total of 2662 prisoners were held in these three statuses, of which 586 prisoners were sentenced to criminal proceedings, 366 prisoners who were fined for fines and 1710 persons who were given detention in the criminal proceedings. In 2018, a total of 11 thousand, 56 use of coercion funds was recorded in the prison system, which is more than 10 cases compared to 2017. Compared to the number of prisoners who were in 2018, so 11 352, the incidence of use of the funds is very low. Suicides, attempted suicide and death of prisoners, the number of suicide attempts recorded in 2018 is 12, the number of prisoners' deaths in 2018 is 18, which is an increase by 4 cases compared to 2017.In 2018, 3 cases of suicide were recorded, which is an increase compared to 2017 and 2016, when no such cases were recorded. Try to escape and escape from prison. The number of prisoner escape attempts recorded in 2018 is lower than in 2017. 5 are registered escape attempts in 2018 versus 6 in 2017. During 2018, a total of 31 cases were recorded, i.e. 0.27 prisoners escaped or did not return from detention. Employees of the penitentiary, prison, educational institutions and centres of the Department of Prison System and Prosecution. On 31 December 2018, 3558 jobs were systematised in penitentiaries, prisons, institutes and centres, and 2611 were filled. And as for the financial report, the prison system already spends about 500 million kuna in one constant, out of which 10%, cca 50 million kuna incomes with its own involvement of prisoners and officials in parts where the most frequently found semi-open and open parts of the prison system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183798	I would like to thank Honorable Secretary of State Yuri Martinovic. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183799	Secretary of State, in your brief explanation of the report you listed comparative data for 2018 and previous years where indicators showed some changes. How are we in 2020, so it is after us in 2019, what are the consequences of the migration crisis on the current state of the Croatian prison system and how has the Croatian prison system been functioning in the last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183800	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Secretary of State Juro Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183801	Your Honor, the report is for 2018, but since I have knowledge and need, you are therefore a representative of Parliament and all present respond to this. So in 2019, we recognized an increase in the number of prisoners, primarily investigating prisoners, as a consequence, the direct consequence of the migrant route going across our country. We have a steady increase, actually almost already overbooked in the closed part of the prison system. We responded to this and in 2019 we built 50 new beds in the closed area in Požega. We're just designing 50 more beds in a closed area in the prison in Glina, and that's the government's reaction, i.e. the Ministry of Justice to the migrant crisis. If it continues, it will have to be a stronger social reaction, so in terms of capacity building in the closed part of the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183802	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183803	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This report is actually an excellent statistical representation of actually the state of work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions. However, your report follows a report by the attorney general who actually looked back through the national preventive mechanism and on the situation in the penitentiary and among other things, in a few things, I will mention 2, so if you can either deny it or confirm it. The first is, she says some prisoners complain they don't have health care. The second is that some illiterate prisoners cannot exercise their rights, their rights to protection because they are illiterate, unable to write applications and have been denied such rights. So she particularly apostrophes it so please either deny it or confirm it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183804	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183805	And the esteemed representative, therefore, I said at the introduction, in the opening presentation, but from this file that you all received in the report, it's obvious that the prison system is one big living mechanism through which 11.5 thousand prisoners go through. The work of 2.5 thousand officials, law enforcement officers and various professionals who make every effort to give these people in a way, to give them all those human rights that they belong to as prisoners. Of course, at individual level, some kind of system failure can happen, that it can't satisfy everything every time, but at a phenomenal level, I'm sure it's not there. As far as healthcare is concerned, I am telling you fully responsible that prisoners in the Croatian prison system consume more medical examinations than one such group outside the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183806	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183807	Thank you, dear Vice President. Just a few questions... I'd like to know if you have any information on the average number of prisoners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have data here on 31.12. I'm interested in how average that is, especially in terms of capacity. So on average during 2018 there were so many prisoners, because the data I saw in the report was only on 31. 12 and the total number of prisoners who are 11 352, so I'm curious about what the average means in a day is. I'm also interested in the standard of the ratio number, I see that we used to have 3, 3.5 etc. A prisoner of one judicial employee, now he's a little more, more than 2, 2,05 if I remember correctly, interested in what is the standard of European as regards the number of prisoners compared to the number of judicial officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183808	Thank you. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183809	I mean, I don't know that there's some kind of universal standard, so as far as the average prisoner in the prison system is concerned, we have it on a daily basis, so in 2018, but also in 2019, the number of prisoners, so we have the capacity of 3900 prisoners. At the daily level is the state of between 3100 and 3500, so speak individually since we have a closed area, a semi-open and open area since some penitentiary facilities have both closed and semi-open and open, where at the daily level how many people there are, this is difficult, this should be practiced, but the average in the prison system was about 3350 people in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183810	Thank you. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, here's your colleague. Secretary of State, can you turn off the microphone, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183811	Thank you very much. As we speak of the penitentiary, since there are people who support their sentences, of course every man on the loose is the potential one who can be the beneficiary of those penitentiarys and so are we here in the Parliament. And for this reason, and for the public interest, I am interested in why the death of Kristijan Vukasovic occurred in 2019 and no one answered. I'm saying this for reasons of public perception, don't mind me saying what I'm saying because there's just a lot of just being in jail and there's those who were supposed to be in jail on the loose. And I'm interested in the question of the esteemed secretary, which is why no one answered, is it? The public was interested, the family said everything that happened, the witnesses said that death happened as it happened, I think because of the public that they should give an answer for why anyone answered, if not, why they did not answer, because of the death of Kristijan Vukasovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183812	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183813	Dear representative, therefore, the tragic death of a young man in Split prison is very strongly consumed through the media and through the Croatian public. So I repeat the tragic death that every normal person in this country has to regret, but I have to tell you one thing. The prison system ends with people sent there by the Croatian judiciary, Croatian courts, so the Croatian prison system cannot refuse anyone to whom the court is sent to hold a sentence or to an investigative prison. In a particular case, it was a young person that the witches had told me to go to prison because the witches told the court that his qualities were such that if he found himself at large, he would repeat the crime. As such, he was admitted to an investigative prison, and in an investigative prison, a disease occurred to him that ended up in a civil hospital and unfortunately there was death, whether someone would answer, that's the thing that we'll see, so the police, the State's Attorney's office, the authorities are doing their job, and if they find that there's been a failure, someone's going to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183814	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183815	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, you've devoted most of your exposure to persons serving time. How much by age, gender, average years, length of punishment, conditions, possibility of medical examination and everything else, and just 2.3 sentences about the persons employed there. I mean professional staff and law enforcement officers. From this, it is literally that every fifth job is unfulfilled. So can you tell me what terms literally work? It means whether the salary is on some national average and what are the working conditions if each literally fifth place is unfulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183816	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183817	Dear Representative, I would say about these working conditions, or if we talk about salaries, everyone here in the assembly knows as much as I do, they are determined by documents that are more or less, decided by the Croatian Parliament. So, they can say that people who work in the prison system of these cca 2600 people are not underpaid in relation to other people of the same level in Croatian society. Law enforcement officers, so we have problems filling jobs since the general state of society is so that the salaries in the state service did not say "God knows what" and of course it would be better, we are increasingly harder to fill jobs in Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Istria and Zagreb. So it would be good, but society must make a complete effort for everyone else and for those people who work in the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183818	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, a colleague of Zekanovic, is not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183819	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. It is common practice that once a year, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia submits a report to the government on the state and work of the prison, penitentiary and educational institutions, hence the Croatian prison system and the government reports once a year to the Croatian Parliament. The report that we received and discussed tonight on the 100th page gives the basic information, most of which was comparatively explained by the Secretary of State. I will try to remember what I hold to be important to mention, and what the Secretary of State in his brief explanation did not say. In the Croatian prison system, it is important to stress, therefore, that 36% of the criminal authorities are against life and bodies and 32% against property, the rest are other crimes, it is important to stress what nature is therefore a criminal offence for which the prison sentence is maintained. The level of prison sentence mentioned in this report is also important to mention this review, so up to a year, 13% of prison sentences, from year to year. It's 32%, 3 to 5 years. 16%, from 5 to 10 years. 16% and more than 20 years. 4%. What is important to note when observations were made to the number of employees in the Croatian prison system in relation to the number of systematicised posts provided for by the Croatian prison system of prison system and testing we see that there is room for more employment, but this will depend naturally on the number of prisoners, it is evident from the review from 2012 to 2016 that the number of prisoners in the Croatian prison system is reduced, which then says that there are no reasons for a greater number of employment although it should be noted that compared to 2017. 9 new employees in the Croatian prison system. It is also important to mention that there are 14 prisons, 7 prison penitentiary facilities, central office, diagnostic centre, centre for education, therefore a well-organised rational structure that enables the implementation of penalties based on the Penal Code, the basis of the Penal Code, the Law on Prosecution, the development of a probationary system through 14 county offices and at the level of the Gran of Zagreb and the County, which is increasingly rationalized by the Croatian prison system, thus reducing costs, it is mentioned that 467 million budgets were spent in 2018. and 50 million revenues from their own activity, which is also one contribution to the rationality of the Croatian prison system. Overall, it can be concluded that the Croatian prison system also works well in the context of the geopolitical position of the Republic of Croatia and the challenges of the immigration crisis, corresponds to all the tasks of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia and because of all the allegations which have been made and which are systematically mentioned in the 2018 report, the HDZ Club will support the report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary offices and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183820	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183821	Thank you very much. Honorable secretary, distinguished assistant minister, when we talk about penitentiary cases of course, there are mostly citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and there are foreigners who support certain penalties for criminal or criminal offences, there are people like I said if in life we are not the ones who can judge, the judiciary means the judge, and justice is something else, it's something right, so I just said in that tone so we don't realize that all the citizens of the Republic, all those who... The living are potential users means penitentiary and it was done for people, of course by that goal if it was done for people, if they are penitentiary, the triba more to say what the living conditions of the penitentiary are. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There she was, finishing the midwives who didn't pay what I know a few bills or don't know, it's public through the media communicable, visible to everyone, so there are people who may not have been in jail, and those who were supposed to be out there, and that's what's eternally happened after ten years, after the murder, it's been discovered that whoever was lying in the penitentiary in some other states, of course, is found out in the end that he wasn't that killer. So, I was just going to ask you secretaries what conditions and responsibilities are, I didn't point out this case of late Kristian Vukasovic in the sense that something negative is talking about people inside the penitentiary and within the system, but purely perceptive to more talk about living conditions, I gave these people 10ths, they gave separate, various commons there exist that I don't classify, I'm not fit to classify it, people of various crimes, different views of everything and, and, and, and different lives. Of course that's what needs to be discussed and that this system needs to be adapted to be as humanely as possible in the conditions of every human being and I'd prefer that in the report on it, means simply in the penitentiary of the conditions of life, given in one room of 10m2 sleeps on it 15, whether there are enough sanitary knots, provided that everything that should be made possible is possible if none of us are covered with ash, we are all of the blood and meat, we all live this earthly life and our neighbor's tribu is looking at it in this way, of course the one who committed serious crimes has committed serious crimes, it's a triba to condemn everything, but I think there are people who ended up in prison on the basis of judgment as you say the justice has made their decision in prison. I was looking at the case of a grandmother who was selling onions or something I don't know if she didn't pay some bills and she couldn't pay that fine and she ended up in jail for a few days. So we have all kinds of things here, people who... are all sorts of things from the most difficult things that are from murders to not knowing what, and of course it's supposed to be looked at like that. But on this human side to humans, I wonder what the condition of life is like in the penitentiary? Here I am, personally, as a citizen, as a parliamentary representative, there are these reports, what is the diet, whether or not there are lobbys that are required to give a lot better, and they earn some, I'm interested in these things. I'm interested in whether someone might be making money on those people who have committed crimes and crimes to those people who are in these circumstances now on this earth's path. Do we know here we often refer to faith, but it exists and let it be thrown by stone by one who has not sinned. So when we talk about the people in the penitentiary, then we have to talk about the conditions of these people's lives, how are these people. And of course the habit of citizens from that position will ask the question of what happened to Kristian Vukasovic and who is responsible is confirmed that it was on man, to the young boy who was convicted and based on the verdict, that there was injury and the basis of testimony through the media that it was. So I'm not applying anyone's responsibility here, but this house stands to discuss in this context that this situation is being enlightened and that's our role. Of course, if so far the police, all the services that are competent to carry out the whole investigation, have no idea that you can't say, that me or you haven't been down, so you've been watching it, or you can't be convicted, but this thing needs to be seriously spoken of, is there some perception that someone is being beaten in the penitentiary, beat up for reasons I don't know, or what I know that dies of consequences, that it needs to be made clear to the public. And there's someone's children, someone's fathers, someone's sons, their mothers, and everything else. However, on this human, human side, no matter what they are condemned, they should, of course, endure their punishments, but still the triba talk about the terms and, of course, they wouldn't end up making money on them, instead of me knowing that their lunch costs them 30 kuna, maybe ultimately to bring them what they want. It's possible, isn't it? I don't know how that works, but I'd like to hear the conditions of living in the penitentiary and see it in some sort of display that you're going to offer us with your words. Purely dry figures about people who are in penitentiary absolutely don't say anything, they can say how many shortfalls, how long it takes if they're missing in the penitentiary. You said there were open, semi-open, closed systems that had in common that all three weeds, it's all okay. But, of course, we as parliamentary representatives, and the public is interested in what conditions are in the penitentiary, and it is still paid out of the budget, everything they do and, of course, it is very important that socialization is very important as far as it is concerned that people who are in prison in the maintenance of the fines as it has been possible for them to contribute to society through some work that will bring them new knowledge, will create a new added value. Is there any such report and any measures taken that these people within prison penitentiary actually contribute to society in the manner in which they can. Here I am in good faith all the questions through the replica I've asked, thinking about these people in the penitentiary to fulfill, to execute the sentence that they made on the basis of the verdict, but it would be good to think about it as people I'm talking about if going to one in the penitentiary is just, and it ended up in regardless of the verdict, if it's just, and we can't know what's just maybe what it is... and there were examples that I said if one of them ended up, and it's probably, there are people righteous in prison, and those who are free might be there. So we want to look at every man from both human and human level, and whoever is a believer from both religious and human level, and thus act in the penitentiary. I would be more interested in this general life within the penitentiary, living conditions, the possibilities of these prisoners in this framework which is governed by law and, of course, by the security measures they must be. These are one special condition, these are not the conditions of freedom where you also have restrictions, yet there must be security measures. There are people who repeat hard acts, so that's one specific situation, but of course there are these others who are in prison, that's all. In the penitentiary for the sake of life circumstances or who knows why. Otherwise, a bad perception is created not only in the penitentiary but also in the case of what happened in Split, of course the perception that the state is. bodies that should do their jobs, institutions do their jobs so that simply people have started to take justice into their own hands. And it's not a good message, and on that side we have to be more transparent, more public in our reports and give it all to the public, because if we create a bad perception and a Split case, I said, I mentioned they're creating some sort of essentially impression, we saw also the facebook groups of people who said that they just have to take justice into their own hands, but these are messages that aren't good. It means that each one of us takes justice into his own hands to what it would lead to. The more public, the more transparent the functioning, so when we talk about both penitentiary and those people, it would be good to bring it to the public. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183822	Thank you. Next debate, on behalf of GLAS Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. From this report which at first glance is either dry or statistical, it can actually be read, it is very informative, very interesting and very good that we get these reports. It also speaks of life and can read a lot about life in the prison system, prisons and penitentiary. The entire prison system is, of course, one of the most radical expressions of the country's monopoly on violence, so it is the state that has the right to punish and in this way sanction people who in various ways violate the law and who are also one of the instruments of the state monopoly on violence, condemnation to prison sentences or different forms of imprisonment in educational institutions, etc. Two possible approaches in principle to people who broke the law, so society through its history approached or had two different approaches to people who violated the laws of the community. One was isolation and the other was reintegration. It's actually fascinating how long isolation has been the main principle of prison organization. So until the 19th century, isolation was the main principle. It was thought that people who broke the law were somehow thrown away, isolated in prisons, so let's say by the 18th century, prisons and madhouses were together. And if you remember Amadeus, you'll remember that scene with which he starts and ends a film where he's de facto seen by convicts and mental patients who are the same institution. This is because societies simply treated people who were also mentally ill, there is that famous book by Michael Faucault, “The History of Crazyness in the Age of Classicalism, ” which also speaks of it. So society has isolated people with mental illnesses and those who in some way have remethyled established order in society, isolated them to the de facto end of the 18th century even kept them together in the same institutions. It is thought that James Mill or the father of John Stuart Mill, who first wrote one study of different approaches to prisons and different approaches to prisoners and people who break the law and that's retraining and reintegration, so where the system and the whole idea of closing people in prisons is no longer based on insulating them, kicking them out of society forever de facto, no, it was the idea that I'm not going to go further into history because it's an interesting history of prison and conviction at all, but for the first time in the 19th century, that the idea that prison should be a chance for people who are imprisoned, punished with prison to reintegrate when they endure their sentence, to reintegrate into society and since 19th century is slowly developing that approach, and all modern prison systems are based on that idea. To de facto shut down, to bring up education, to all the things this report is about, are institutions that have sinned without regard to what and how, the people that the judiciary has sentenced to prison for having committed something wrong, through the prison system de facto have the opportunity not only to repent their sins to say so, but to have the opportunity to reintegrate into society. The goal is for them to be involved in society at the end of the experience, so that they can be re-involved in society. So that's the ultimate goal of closing. The ultimate goal of closure is not isolation, it is punishment momentarily but ultimately the goal of reintegration into society. And from that position, we should look at it in my opinion because it is, of course, in the basis of our every modern prison system, that is, in the context of our prison system, such a general approach and this idea, and from that position we should look at this report as well. The report contains data on the number and structure of the prisoners, roughly, parts of course have a long list of topics but in the roughness of the number and structure of the prisoners, the type and description of the dealings with prisoners, officials, therefore data on officials in the prison system and data on the financing of the Administration for the prison system and probation for 2018 of course. In 2018, there were 11 352 people in the prison system, as the State Secretary had already said, and as reported in the report, there were 11 352 people, and now this has been broken down into categories, so the maintenance of prison sentences, investigative prisons, juvenile prisons and educational institutions, or as they called it in our youth, jurisprudence homes. In 2018, so all together, 11 352 persons. At the same time, prison facilities are in that same year 3900 seats. Of course all these people aren't in jail at the same time but they're not only 3 to 4 months. And this, when you look at the number of people who have been in prison and the number of places that are available, hits the eyes with an obvious problem and that's overcrowding. So it's obvious that our prisons are overcrowded, that there's not enough room or there are too many prisoners, the question is how is it determined, but that overcrowding is otherwise globally known as the main cause of violence in the penitentiary. So the main reason and the main problem that arises in prisons around the world is overcrowding and from these data that are very clearly substantiated here, the figures themselves say there would be three prisoners in one place, I repeat, of course not all these people were in jail at the same time but there were many of them at the same time because by the type of punishment you see and this is also given in this report you see that they would have to be up to 3 months. no more than anyone in prison to be able to use those places as planned or as much as planned for a prisoner to have space. Among other things, the attorney general's report speaks of that overcrowding and therefore much more people than the space that is secured than the standard. There may not be a bad mention of what the standard is, the standard is 3 m2. So if you do, it says in the report, if you have a standard of 3 m2 per person and it's too crowded, as much as you really have, in real life as a prisoner, it should be the main message and the lesson in this report that I consider very high-quality otherwise because it really speaks about the seriousness of the situation, talking about the overcrowding of investigative prisons that are particularly problematic because there are no programs there with everything else. So people who are in regular prison have some programs, something to do with them, something to do with them in terms of some interaction or treatment or therapy or something, it's not in investigative prisons and they're also overcrowded. It has already been mentioned here and the report is said that in 2018, foreign citizens in prisons, so their numbers have increased, it is not a large number, it is 389 but has increased by 73% compared to 2017. They're obviously refugees and migrants. The first thing that says and this isn't any migrant crisis, the first migrant crisis is 2015, and this is the situation that Europe is going to have to get used to as a regular one. The main thing he's saying is asylum policy. Europe has a poor asylum policy and we have a bad, even worse asylum policy and one of the reasons why we can't deal with it because we haven't reformed that asylum policy and, of course, influenced and, in my opinion, put pressure on European institutions to take this seriously. Finally, you know that in the U.K. now the main topic is Brexit. In this morning's news to the British, right after Brexit, so the other news was that 9% of prison officials in V.B. have different forms of mental disorders and difficulties due to overcrowding of prisons, different types of PTSD due to overcrowding and prison violence. This report shows that we have a total of 2611 prison officials, of 3558 how systematic they are, in other words, how many, even after the prison's verdict, the prison system should have them. So let's say 2/3 of what we should have, which means that these people are safely under, it's an unusually difficult thing not to say actually stressful, stressful job, and if it works so that practically every tenth in Britain is a prison officer in PTSD or in a mental, mental illness of pressure and the fact that, that prisons are overcrowded, it can be very easy to assume for our situation, given that there are, these jobs filled with 2/3, so in that sense this report is very informative, but not optimistic, we're going to support it because as a report, we think that a lot of talk, it can be read out, but it has to be a starting position for one, one reform, one really different approach to the whole prison system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183824	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183825	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, so we are talking about the Report on the State and Labour of Penitentiary, Prison and Educational Institutions for 2018. And he says that, we have a total number of prisoners who have passed through the prison system of 11352, which is insignificant compared to 2017, and the prison sentence has sustained 4119 prisoners. What my colleague Pusic said was that given the total number of people who went through the system and the total number of places, that's about 4 months, and we have here what we got in response that the average number of 3900 capacities, 3300, 3500, they stay. Now there are two questions, one thing is whether according to existing places we have enough space, and then we're talking about the quality and conditions of living in those prisons, prisons, prisons, penitentiary areas, namely some standards should be as many as 4m2 of the dormitory, or 10m3 of the room per prisoner, now that the number of single cells or dormitory, whatever the number of them is, has different theories, so where we can, which type of prison, which type of penitentiary, has those half-opened, semi-locked, etc. the type, but here it's obvious that it's possible that this capacity that's on paper seems enough that it's not quite adequate. What in some theory should we say goes through, understand, however, that one of the principles of execution of prison is exactly the principle of the classification of prisoners, but now I'm interested in what part of us respects it if in some penitentiary areas it's not exactly that we have special places for certain groups of prisoners for serious crimes, and then by the type of crime, rapists and pedophiles, I don't know anything else, robbers, murderers, etc., all those serious crimes from those who support the same punishment should, when the second sentence of prison, therefore not long-term, so not those who are from 6 months to 10 years old, means that the mid-term, because none of those departments do not function, are actually more or more in the manner to tell me that the most things come from the violence of the officers where we see that I am here, as workers of two, zero, five per prisoner, and I think that there are really one of the wrongful type of law that we are going to do so much to the wrongs and the wrongs, that we are not to the things that we should be able to do. The laws prescribed and then when you leave with the outside world, health care etc., stay at the open area of the penitentiary for a minimum of 2 hours a day, etc., work, education, etc., some things that are such basic, basic, basic conditions. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we have also seen here in the report we have an opportunity to see that it is not, in fact, what we do not see is actually not contained, and according to both the right of penetration and the penology itself, it is certain that it should be contained in the methodological report and the poll of the users themselves or the prisoners themselves, their judgment on conditions, relationships, any methodological activities to see exactly where we are, what they say, the surveys by the system whether it will be all bad, all right, in which way the methodological approach will be made, but I would like to see what the prisoners themselves consider to be in prison, which is better, which is good, which is not good, which is bad, which would actually give us maybe that real picture or complete this picture that we are talking about here today. So what I don't see here is actually what you'd like in the final address to see is how much, which is the structure of the accommodation, not perhaps in certain penitentiary and prisons, as much as per the type of room, cell, single, multiple, etc., single, and what is already called. That part about the estimated which is the accommodation, which is the pressure on the prison system itself, I believe is great. I believe that what matters is that all those who enter the prison system have conditions that are worthy of every man regardless of whether he is convicted of this or that. So he has to execute his sentence with dignity and have this rehabilitation factor in him not that people are going to get worse than they did depending on what they did. Furthermore, the length of the sentence, when we talked about the accommodation and said the most there are those who support a sentence from one to three years 30% of them. That means 4.119 prisoners as long as they endured the penalty, they 30% mean it's 1,300 is from one to three years, then the next percentage is practically equal to those who are over 3 years to 10 years is 34%. So a third of them are 1 to 3 years old, and a third of them are 3 to 10 years old. And that tells us about that story about capacity, which means more than four months if we split this up by those who were pro-circulating in one case of prison investigation or any other way through the prison system. 2/3 of them have been there for over a year. Not four months as long as it looks like it can be patient if we're looking at the 11352 each month divided by the number of months we get some number about 846, we multiply that times 4 we get to 3,900. This means that there is obviously a problem with the capacity of the places themselves, and what it is when we talk about the quantity that we may be able to solve in one way or another is the question of quality as to how they are located, in which departments in which they function, whether they are all enabled and whether they have those standards that have 4 square places to sleep and 10 cubic air to breathe. Which sounds pretty ugly when you put it in numbers, what a man needs to live. Here, these are some questions that I, I would prefer to hear a little bit of answers and in which way might the methodological report be even more content to give a better picture, in such a way as to process and perhaps survey themselves and the officials, as well as the prisoners. On the other hand, and these conditions that as much as it is in a day's population, day by day, every day we have that information, we need to know on the day how many prisoners we have. It's a slightly accessible data, so it's possible that any justice system must know how many people there are in the day in the execution of the sentence. So we can watch that graph go, where the picks are, which is why, where, etc., in which prisons, in which works. The same thing I'd be interested in, which courts indicate the most, where the most reference comes from for the maintenance of penalties, etc., to get a better picture. I'm talking methodologically here, I'm not talking so much content because we're talking about the report here, and we're interested in how to get as much data as possible, not problematize, not so many conditions right now. Here, so much for this work, so for the conditions it's certainly important, it's safety, it's important to you basic people living conditions in this area, and I'd like it to go to that part of it, that as much as possible by the departments, in accordance with the execution of the type of punishment, not that one part of the prisoners is living on another because, more or less, they find out everything about everyone and there it comes to, in the end I have some arguments and people reporting that they've really suffered certain abuses, physically, that I'm not talking about psychically by other prisoners, which is always possible, it can't be eradicated but it must always be reduced to such things. One of them is the capacity, single rooms, departments, not mixing different types of prisoners with respect to penalties and the type of punishment and what they execute. Of course the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183826	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183827	Thank you, Vice President. At first I should say that tomorrow the SDP Club will vote in favour of accepting this report because it is materially rich, pedantically composed. However, it would be better to consider the opinion of the attorney general, so that we can respond to the opinion that we get a little more complete picture, not just this series of statistics from which much can be read. Two fundamental human rights are the right to life and the right to freedom. Here this report speaks of people deprived of one of these fundamental rights, the right to freedom. That right was taken from them by law, based on the court's decision of crime, because of the mistakes they've made. The purpose of punishment is to isolate those who have committed crimes, but also their retraining. Now, as far as we're in that prison system, we're successful in re-creation, the data on page 13 of your report says that as many as 45% of those who have been on prison terms before are. That means that this resociation actually doesn't work, it's almost zero, 45% relapser, it's an extremely high percentage. And then you need to see what can be done to fix it, because otherwise it's just isolation, then he goes out, then he does a crime again, and we're actually dealing with irreparable criminals. There is something more interesting about this data, namely at the time of the elections always coming to the election commission a special report comes about voting in the penitentiary, when those votes from the penitentiary come then the HDZ increases the election rating by several percentages. It is a very, very interesting and indicative information about what political commitment is in the penitentiary. What are the rights of a prisoner? According to this report, they are very high, on a very high level, almost higher in people on the loose. They have three meals a day with a minimum of 3000 calories, many families in Croatia who are free, who do not commit crimes cannot afford. Many dig in containers, collect plastic bottles, and hardly collect for three meals a day of 3000 calories. What's the medical care? There were 61,994 general medical examinations. Well that's a very high number, that's a high number, that's a high standard, then there were 3,208 dental examinations, that's good, we're also worried about the teeth of the prisoners not to suffer from toothache, and then 5,535 psychiatric examinations, that's maybe because of these results of the vote, and then 1,133 lab tests, 314 other tests, 9,412 specialist medical examinations in institutions outside the prison system. Then inmates were minors throughout the year, according to the report, participated in various sports activities and engaged in sports such as football, basketball, table tennis, badminton, volleyball, bottles, chess or gym exercise. Different sports tournaments were also organised within and between criminal acts, encouraging cooperation with local sports clubs wherever there was an interest. They were also visited by renowned athletes Mirko Filipovic, Tamara Boroš, Ciro Blažević, Drazen Ladic, Josip Šimunić and others. They have a rich cultural life that many pensioners on the loose or those who collect in containers can't afford bottles, theatre shows come to them, for example. Even from the ZKM was the performance "Black Mother Earth", a great performance, a great performance, and they've got writers coming to them, and that's where I only recognize Christian Novak from stronger names. So that standard, at least according to this report, is very high, almost makes a person want to go to the penitentiary. Then another interesting piece of information, but let's go first to the structure of the crime. It's terribly interesting that murder, murder and murder are the most common of 210 such convicts. What does that tell us? So it tells us what the Split case has told us, it's these murders, that we're one society that's very violent and in which people try to solve their problem by killing each other or come to some kind of justice because this young 25-year-old in Split killed three people, from before known police officers who blackmailed his family and his brother. And why is that? Well, because the system didn't do its part of the job. This tragedy could have been prevented, so the whole of Split knows who was dealing drugs, the whole of Split, all except the police, and that in time the police would not have happened. This means that even welfare centres don't do their job well because they don't recognize possible conflicts in advance, and even 210 of them reach for murder, serious murder, or murder in advance. Then we have a heavy theft of 70, fraud 59, rape 17, sexual intercourse with child 13, a very high number for such a serious crime. When we look at the data from where foreign citizens come from, the most from BiH are 91, so we import both crime and criminals from BiH. Look, they're not migrants because they're classified into this group of other Syrians, Iran, Pakistan, they're 56. So these are BiH citizens. That's another blessing we have. Now, we see that the government is showing special concern for the prisoners and for the prison systems, spending huge money, I apologize, spending, among other things huge money in the budget, but it's kind of understandable to me. Now, this prison system is being used by Ivo Sanader, former HDZ president, former prime minister, then so is the trial not only of Ivo Sanader, the retrial, but of the entire HDZ over the Fimi media affair. So we can expect from that trial even more, which is, they are being tried for stealing, for robbing public enterprises, and in the millions of amounts they carried in black bags in the party, they can be expected to flow, and it is good for them that the government is looking after that prison system to be as comfortable as possible, which is more favourable to these prisoners. How will it be if the State's Attorney's Office deals with all these ministers who have been removed because they have not been able to fill out their property cards or have entered in them significantly less property than they have. So if the State's Attorney's office starts an investigation, and since they've come to this property, I'm afraid this prison system that's already overcrowded, I don't know where we'll be able to put all these people. Well, there are also those who worry that, if the prison system isn't overcrowded, it's one famous speedboat driver who killed an Italian couple, but who is now avoiding the prison system by treating them. There is a well-known tentkeeper who is also being treated and for whom it is not enough, good enough Svetosymunska, but who is being treated at large even though he should report for the maintenance of the sentence, and who has been punished for stealing from his beloved Croatian people whom he loves forever and his beloved Croatian state. The same effort was made to go to BiH, he is such a great patriot that he does not have enough of one state, he must have two states to show his patriotism, but he fled from the Croatian judiciary. Okay, so maybe I'll end up there in that prison system of yours if the threats that were made yesterday on the War Veterans Committee, according to me and Pupovac, where these tentacles want to take over the role of a state attorney, they'd judge me and Pupovac. They're asking the state's attorney to start proceedings against us, which means they're doing the work of pressure on a judicial official, which they're not aware of, it's a serious crime, a serious crime. For what? Because of the opinion of my colleagues, Pupovec and me. Because of the verbal delinquent, because we said something they didn't like. And now they would take justice into their own hands and carry out the persecution. So maybe I'll become a consummation of your prison system. But because of the transparency of the report, because of these interesting statistics from which I read what I read, a colleague from HDZ something completely different, we will accept your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183828	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS representative club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183829	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Justice, here we have heard in the opening presentation a representative of the rapporteurs of this report has also pointed out the statistics that for the prison system for this reporting period, i.e. for 2018 and alone, the report itself contains so many statistics, so that we can evaluate the report in detail, but I also believe that we can constructively object that the report can be better and more complete. The report shows that in 2018 there were 11352 prisoners in the prison system, a figure that is slightly larger than a year's work, but exactly the prison system can't really be affected by how much the person in the prison system or not, it's there to take care of the prisoners while they're in the system itself. The fundamental law governing the rights of prisoners, the execution of fines in penitentiary and prisons as well as the supervision of the execution of sentences is the prison for the execution of prison sentences, and there are still a number of regulations that are more detailed. In addition to these national regulations governing the rights of prisoners and how to enforce penalties, we also have international regulations, international standards. These national regulations follow the European prison rules and the UN's standard minimum rules for dealing with prisoners. Under these national regulations and international rules, therefore, both the national and international mechanisms of supervision of the execution of prison sentences have been established. At international level, therefore, I think only this submission of the report is a kind of parliamentary surveillance, and at international level, such surveillance is carried out by specialised bodies within the Council of Europe and so we have within the Council of Europe a Committee on the Prevention of Torture and Other Inhumane Procedures. What would that be? This body is exactly the same as GREVIO, if we remember the debate on the Istanbul Convention, so against that body, the expert group on action against violence against women and violence in the family in charge of monitoring the implementation of the Convention has been raised by the hip and the disruptors, so that this committee also follows the conditions in prisons and penitentiarys and submits reports on the conditions and work of such institutions for all members of the Council of Europe, as well as for the Republic of Croatia. And that committee was in the Republic of Croatia, and it drew up such a report, the last such report was for 2017, and when we look at that report for 2017, the Council of Europe also objected to what was highlighted in the debates so far, lack of accommodation facilities in prison, although they recognized the government's efforts to reduce overcrowding. They also pointed out both the professional and the correct treatment of judicial police against prisoners, they recorded several cases of physical abuse and the disproportionate use of measures of physical restriction of freedom, or the use of so-called use. rubber rooms. Then the report problemed the punishment of minors by isolation for up to 7 days, and the report problemed the reduction of the number of healthcare staff, which in practice creates problems due to insufficient and untimely providing health services. So these were all the objections of an international body that we can hear from us and today in the debate that these objections were filed by some MPs on the basis of a report by the attorney general. Mostly, the Ministry of Justice has been shown to accept all the recommendations. Now I think it is very important, or it would be good and important that this report that we are discussing also contains what this committee has recommended, which recommendations have been accepted and what has been done under these recommendations. I certainly commend this detailed and precise report, but I think we should refer here to the recommendations made by the Council of Europe Committee and say what has been made, which has been made, which has been made in respect of these recommendations. I also think that the report, as detailed as it may be, should contain reasons for some things. It should contain data or have a comparison with earlier years in order to compare trends, there should be explanations as to why there is a lack of medical staff so that the examination of psychiatrists is difficult to reach despite the great interest of prisoners, to explain if the causes of the increase in violence are possible, taking into account also the fact and to make it clear that there is this grey zone of non-reporting such violence. Also in this year's report, we had 18 deaths. Now that we say 18 deaths, maybe it's not in an absolute number, and I think it's a lot. Very often it can be connected and thought of violent death or that some of these deaths are violent, but I believe not, and I got an explanation on the parliamentary board that all deaths were actually natural from disease. But that should stand in the report so there's no doubt whether or not death is violent. In addition, we have statements from individual representatives of the Justice Police Union about the very poor position of judicial officers about the poor condition in the prison system, primarily regarding the safety of judicial officers, due to their small number, due to the illicit introduction of intoxicating agents, mobile devices, due to insufficient technical equipment. The thought is not necessarily in the report to respond specifically to all these criticisms, but should generally address highlighted problems because there is no successful functioning of the prison system without satisfied and well-equipped judicial officers. All that I've just said is brought to me and to the remarks of the attorney general. I believe that the representatives of the Justice Department are aware of these problems and I think and I suggest that it would be good in the next report that they look back at these things at least at the end of the report to say what the problems are and to ask the representatives here to increase the budget, to say that we do not have enough resources in the budget would be very useful to have a dog trained for drugs and should then invest in getting that dog in his training. In any case, with all these justified criticisms, the SDSS club will support this report and I say it is good, detailed with a lot of statistics, but I think it should be complemented next year, primarily with reference to the recommendations made by the Council of Europe Committee to see what has been done specifically, as well as to refer to the critics and recommendations of the attorney general, but also the Justice Police Union. In any case, we support this report, he would also point out that I welcome and support the initiative of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to form a working group of MPs who would visit individual prisons and penitentiary facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183830	I thank my fellow Milosevic. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Željko Raguž. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183831	Vice-President, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, a number of colleagues said the conditions in the Croatian prison system were overcrowded, one indicator from page 9 so that the Croatian prison system was during 2012. 15905 prisoners, then 2013. 15700 and 2014 respectively. 13000, it says, compared to 2012, and in recent years 2015 to 2018, so in the past 4 years. The figure moves around 11300, says that the number of prisoners is reduced and that the indicator says that there is also a reduction of overcrowding in the Croatian prison system, of course it is also related to the development of the probationary service, the development of alternative sanctions and there are certainly spaces with a number of new employment of social educators, social workers, health workers, educators and a number of other professional activities that can help reduce the number and relapses of the perpetrators of criminal offences will therefore enable the key ambition of the Croatian prison system, which is the reintegration of the perpetrators of the crimes into Croatian society or the ambition of reducing relapses in the perpetrators of criminal offences, which is therefore just one dimension that I have missed to notice and emphasize, which is important. I also appreciate that in the presentation of a number of colleagues, there have been inappropriate findings of exit from the topic, especially fellow Stazic, who abuses every opportunity to develop ovivity with some unargumented connections to BiH, so it is perfectly logical that BiH and the Republic of Croatia, which have 1000 km of borders, also create conditions for committing crimes, or one number of prisoners and BiH, regardless of their nationality. As I was on the HS Defence Committee yesterday, I appreciate that his evaluations of the behaviour of the representatives of the Association of the Homeland War do not stand for the reason that he said that he had shown in a tolerance-free atmosphere and then justified his departure from the Defence Committee, and he was not therefore good at telling elsewhere and hearing remarks on his position, and it was on that committee yesterday as well as tonight in his presentation of attitudes which still do not promise that he gave up his formulations of the type that the winners had not finished their work, I do not know that he was managing the Croatian prison system whether overcrowding would have been resolved in a proper manner and a number of other assessments that were not simply suited to this home, and I appreciate that in an earlier step when there were these assessments, however, his fellow Stazic would be corrected and that there would be no need to end in his Croatian prison system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183832	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183833	Thank you very much. Comrade Raguž, a little off topic, but I would like to say that, the truth is that Milorad Pupovac said that the Republic of Croatia will end up as NDH, but Milorad Pupovac is with you in the coalition, and of course I will not agree with Mr. Stazic's statement that the winners of '45. did not finish the job that the tribals killed what they did not kill in Kočevski Rogu in, in, in Hudo Jama, of course I won't agree, but the one for which the session was called is with you in the coalition and Milorad Pupovac who storms instead of in Knin that at the celebration of the greatest victory of the Croatian army is a pure legitimate operation, he is at the Chetnik party with Chetnik Vukic in Backo Palanca, but he is your coalition partner, so I am for freedom of opinion, I have no problem with what my colleague Stazic will say, I will say that it is a statement that calls for violence, to murder, but it is democracy, but you who vote together with Milorad Pupovac every Friday when a mother is given up And money, now that's questionable. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183834	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Here's a colleague of Ragug's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183835	Col. Bulj, it would be good for you to enter a little more logic in your discussions, so the Republic of Croatia is a democratic society and within the framework of a democratic society, and also colleagues Stazic and colleagues Pupovac have the basis for making different views and assessments, there are state institutions that will evaluate whether their statements call for violence, to develop hatred, and I ask you what is the logic of you objecting to HDZ every Friday when you vote in the same way as counterpart Stazic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183836	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, here's a colleague. .
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183837	Comrade Raguž, I must disappoint you, I will not change, especially in a way that I can begin to think with your head, that would mean total defeat to me. The fact that my colleague Bulj objected to you to vote together with or the HDZ who voted together with Pupovac is completely illogical to me because my colleague Bulj was in a coalition with that same HDZ, twice led them to power, and this is the basis of a lie signed by a public notary of his party colleague that he will not be with anyone, meaning the foundation of the most common fraud, and now such a man who cheated on his constituents twice, twice, goes to someone to object to a conflict relationship, and it is normal for minority representatives to always go with representatives of the authorities, so it was in all Parliament's meetings, and that's the only thing that's normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183838	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183839	I'm an optimist in life, and I appreciate that you're still going to get better, not that you have an opinion like me, but that you simply refrain from quoting those who are responsible for war crimes and who are speaking and who have written in their books that revenge actions are normal at the end of the war, which is not normal, which is contrary to the number of international conventions and I'm just complaining to you. And to think the same as me, thank God we'll never think the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183840	Thank you. My colleague Markin Schibol is not present. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183841	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed secretary, assistant, the esteemed few fellow MPs. Of course here's the end of the prison system I said everything at the beginning on behalf of the club and through the replicas that I'm thinking about the prison system and, of course, during the debate, what he said was that the problem was yesterday. Col. Stazic's esteemed colleague listed everything, the man who was always with HDZ when it was supposed to be when the steering and the beam was then handed over to the presidents, reported from HRT, i.e. From Croatian Radio, I don't know where he came from, he was in these combinations and the man was quiet then, he was quite like it when people were of course in the trenches and it was his democratic right. The man was doing his job and of course it's demographic law. However, talk about statements and that I offended whoever says, who says that the Croatian state is i.e. It's '45. A year's work, maybe a little quieter please, don't be nervous, that job '45. He didn't make a winner his job was a pure crime. Who I'm going to co-ordinate with, of course I'm not going to be with my colleague Stazic because he was the most loyal subject of the 1990s HDZ. Here's all I wanted to say was that one subject who was loyal to HDZ is now telling me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183842	Thank you. The closing statement on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go. Comrade Bull, please return to your seat. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183843	Thank you, Vice President. Since I didn't have the possibility of a replica, I'm going to use these two minutes not all five to defend myself from lunch. I've never listened to HDZ. In the 1990s, I was the editor of internal politics on the Croatian Radio and war reporter and war reporter, and that was my war schedule. And that's why President Tudjman gave me the Homeland War Memorial and the Flash Medal. Did I, as editor of this wartime, defend interests in my reports, defend Croatia's interests? Of course. What else was I supposed to do in your opinion? I've never been a member of the HDZ or a member of the HDZ. So I don't know what these lunches of yours are for, these lies that are easily proven. As for my statements that after the war there was also a vengeful killing, I said there were, not only in Croatia, everywhere in France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, no one is looking for a memorial of these events today, only you, only you. You and the likes of you. Everyone else has forgotten or tried to forget these events. Mrs. Merkel, when she was and I said that on the board, when she was at the Victory Day celebration a few years ago in Moscow, said the German people would never be grateful enough to the Russian people that we were in '45. Freed, and you know what crimes the Russians did when they got there. Terrible. No one's letting them down. After Stalingrad, 100,000 Germans were taken to Siberia. Do you know how many have returned? Seven. No one's asking to be memorialized, these missing. So here we are a little bit specific. And that insistence of yours, which is why yesterday on the board I was talking about dinosaurs and brontosaurus, that your insistence only extends division in society, just prolongs and nothing else. And do not do good to this country. What I've said is historical facts, you may know them or you don't know them, if you don't know them, I will teach you, as I teach you I see quite unsuccessfully, quite unsuccessfully. And I'd love to have that Merkel sentence, if you'd say you here or any of the HDZ's I'd know we live in a normal state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183844	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183845	Infringement of Article 238 where he insults counterpart Stazic where he said openly that I am lying. I was astounded with his reports on the battlefield and astounded as they were, above all, prochdz and antidjmanski, it was so amazing that I had it left in my memory and I really can't convince and teach it to you. But I will never approve of my colleague Stazic's statement that the winners are '45. They didn't finish the job. All totalitarian regimes are condemned both communist and fascist and Nazi and every sacrifice triba... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183846	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. ...that he wasn't injured by the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State and his associate for the reasons of the report. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda statement on amendments. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 7:31 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-30-0.u183847	Report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary and educational institutions for 2018 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary offices and educational institutions for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 104 for, 7 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
