ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200174	We will now move to a united debate on the following two points, these are: Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Foreign Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 926 Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 927 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the MUP, Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. You are presented with proposals to supplement the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. The current Foreigning Act has been in force since 1 January 2012, and it regulates the area of entry into the Republic of Croatia, residence in the Republic of Croatia and the work of foreign nationals of third countries and is in line with a total of 23 directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European acquis and applies exclusively to third-country nationals, not to EU citizens. Currently in the Republic of Croatia there are 66,582 third-country nationals of which 10,282 citizens are granted permanent stay, and 56,300 temporary stay, mostly for the purpose of working 46,681, and then for the purpose of joining the family of 8.263 and other purposes such as study, scientific research and other fewer foreign nationals. All of them, therefore, shall be issued to third-country nationals who have been granted either a temporary stay and residence permits, and in part of these documents shall cease or cease to be valid during the declaration of an outbreak of COVID-19 disease. This bill would allow third-country nationals to use issued residence permits during the duration of the epidemic to continue uninterrupted stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, the proposed additions are prescribed that the actions in the administrative procedure to be taken by third-country nationals within the time limits prescribed by the Foreign Law may be taken no later than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. These are, for example, administrative actions relating to the submission of a request to extend the authorisation of a temporary stay, to apply for an authorisation for stay and work, to apply for a biometric residence permit to replace the residence permit due to the expiry of the period of validity or modification of the data or the damage to the residence permit itself, and then to report or modify the application of the residence and the address of the residence. Similarly, citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families are in the same situation. As you know, last year this matter was isolated from the Foreign Law and from the 18th. Seven. In 2019, the law governing the stay and work of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area in the Republic of Croatia is in force. At present, 12 477 citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families are staying in Croatia. Of that number, 6 771 persons have an approved permanent stay and 5 706 have a registered temporary stay, most often for family connection or use of real estate. And these categories of persons are therefore issued certificates of application of temporary stay and residence card, and part of these documents has ceased or will cease to be valid during the duration of the epidemic. Therefore, the proposal to supplement this law proposes the use of already issued certificates of application of temporary residence, issued residence cards, as well as the taking of certain actions for which the deadlines are set and prescribed. Therefore, citizens of the European Economic Area will also be obliged to take action within the time limits laid down in the applicable law or for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic, certain actions and procedures for the extension of their documents. Therefore, both third-country nationals and citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, due to the limitations of social contact and thereby to carry out certain tasks in which their documents are issued or extended, are therefore proposed to supplement these two laws which will allow all those persons to extend their documents within 30 days of the end of the epidemic. The implementation of the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area will not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200176	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200177	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is good that we are at European level and I think we have sent the message to the world, even in this pandemic that we are a safe and stable country and destination. We know that the nautical season begins and the tourism minister himself mentioned that this first wave may be a tourist to save you from being saved that in the season it is precisely in those foreigners who have vessels or some property owned in the Republic of Croatia. We know that their interest in coming even in quarantine in the Republic of Croatia has been demonstrated, does the ministry think about allowing those foreign citizens who own or own a vessel or real estate in the Republic of Croatia to come to the Republic of Croatia and what is the procedure for them to come at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200178	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200179	Dear Mr. Representative, the arrival of these persons in their homes or cottages is permitted, but at this time of these measures of limited social movements, they will have to be in isolation for 15 days, so they will not be able to move freely. We believe that through the downfall of the number of patients these measures in some close time will and will be facilitated, but at this point we can only speak about what the situation is, so we still need an isolation of 15 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200180	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, one of the measures that has caused the biggest dissatisfaction of our citizens is the restriction of movement particularly illogical within our counties where there are municipalities that do not have the most basic resources such as mail or bank, so people could not do the most basic jobs to other municipalities, so here we have shown that we are not quite realistically divided into the Republic of Croatia and that this should be changed on the other hand that this decision could have been at the level of the county, I think it was a much more correct path and I hope that you will soon start in this direction, or that you will end this restriction of movement to the most basic municipal units. But what I'm interested in, so I'm interested in these 60,000 foreigners, how they move to the Republic of Croatia while our citizens can be within their municipalities, I'm curious about how these 60,000 foreigners are moving right now in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200182	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200183	Foreigners who have issued a permit to stay in the Republic of Croatia in most of their activities are the same as Croatian citizens. So, if it moves outside the place of its registered residence, it has to get a pass but for it has to have a legitimate reason, means one of these foreigners, part of them does, so the biggest part as they see it does, and if they need it for work, means a pass that if he works in a different place of residence or now in a different county they will end up there... Like all other Croatian citizens, if they have a valid reason, let's say they have to follow a family member to a doctor, so I have exactly the same rules as a Croatian citizen as the movement in this situation. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200184	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200185	Thank you very much. With this law, you want to prevent social contacts and exits, i.e. You extend your permits to foreigners who have residence or residence in this area of the Republic of Croatia. However, the fact is that when we talk about foreign persons in the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia is liberalising the market and that we have a large increase in foreign workers, mainly in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which is over 100,000. For comparison two years ago. We had 15 000 workers, 10-11 000 from other countries, and mostly from Bosnia, Serbia, an increase from other countries. Do you have any information on how many people are exampled outside the EU, from other countries of Europe to the Republic of Croatia who are in a working relationship and who need to extend these permits? I'm interested in people who aren't, so from the EU countries at this point?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200186	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200187	Dear Representative, as I was saying earlier, there are currently 66582 citizens in the Republic of Croatia, so to speak. third countries, so outside the EU, and that's what you asked. Of these, 56300 have an approved temporary stay, and for the purpose of work 46681, so that number of persons works. Some of them, unfortunately as well as part of Croatian citizens, have lost their jobs in this situation, especially in some sectors. However, greater demand is emerging in other sectors. For example, in agriculture, so that a part of people who have worked in tourism so far have lost their jobs, both Croatian citizens and foreigners, are now asking for permits for, so now we're talking about foreigners, they're asking for permits to work in agriculture, and if employers have their own needs, and they have such permits and they get them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200188	The following replicas, Honored Representative Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200189	Your Honor, Deputy Minister, please... Are these strangers here or are they with permission? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's what my colleague Bulj asked. And that means whether we actually have a different criterion for foreigners or for our citizens. You say that strangers will power their yachts and their cottages, and our citizens can't do that. In fact, my real question was, do you approve of residence and residence at this point in accordance with the Law on residence and residence?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200190	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200191	Dear Mr. Representative, the Law on residence and residence is a regulation that regulates that matter for Croatian citizens. The law on foreigners, or this Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area, for these other categories that we are talking about today and that we have in the procedure of amending, supplementing the law. Changes in residence and residence, except in certain justified cases, are also limited for Croatian citizens in view of the restrictions on movement. They are carried out if, for example, a foreigner has become a Croatian citizen and has not yet had a registered residence under the law, and in newborn children, in persons who have made a marriage and for this reason live together, and then in persons who have already had a residence, they have expired, and they have the right to be extended and in some other justified cases, but therefore there is no wide [[Intruder: Thank you]] the application of that law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200192	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200193	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am actually interested in a situation which may now be unrelated to this current situation although I assume that those persons who have a temporary residence, so foreigners or residence, can generally not move within the EU area or should. Namely, they should have a visa under the current law. However, instructions are that some border police may accompany their wives to travel within the EU. For example, Hungary allows it, Austria allows it, but Slovenia does not. If you and your husband or spouse are a foreign citizen, he's 5 years old. The allowed residence went somewhere, on the Slovenian border regardless of if you're just passing through it, asking for a visa. Now all I'm interested in is how it's settled in this situation at all now, whether they can at all, and in the future, if it's the instructions for the border police to do everything if they're accompanied by a wife who has an EU citizen, that she can move. However, here we have such practices as are permitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200194	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200195	Your Honor, I must say I am not familiar with the practice of all European states now. As a rule, third-country nationals when they are married to a Croatian national or a national or a citizen of the European Economic Area have freedom of movement. In this respect, this Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Area and the members of their families is also intended to facilitate the movement of their spouses of family members who are not citizens of the European Economic Area. But in this situation, when countries introduce measures, they introduce measures that are not exactly the same from, from country to country, we could not tell you whether someone can travel freely to Slovenia or, or Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200196	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative, Sagar, also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200197	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, so I'll just mention the woman now. Many rural women have gone to work either in Austria, either in Italy or in other EU countries, they are now unable to return precisely because of this two-week quarantine provision. As I understanded by the minister at yesterday's press, he said that given the merger, the possibility of bringing the family together to make exceptions and maybe there's a proposal, it might be a good solution to allow, here are our citizens who should return to their families for a certain time, that instead of two weeks' quarantines, tests that don't have to be after two weeks, they might be, let the profession say, maybe after three or five days, and that procedure could actually be the basis for a future tourist season because if we expect tourism, then we have to introduce different models. What you're saying is that people will come to tourism and be quarantined for two weeks, it really doesn't make sense. Is this the direction being considered, and did I understand the minister well, that in the sense of family integration, there would be exceptions?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200198	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200199	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that question has nothing to do with this matter here, but the Republic of Croatia has to make that clear. It also allows for the repatriation of our citizens in the country. And in that sense certain transports are allowed together to make it easier for these people to enter their homeland, but because of the epidemiological situation, isolation is still needed. By giving in and hoping, by a small number of infected, those measures will be facilitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200200	Now we're going to ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200201	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, here are the citizens interested in all measures concerning the pandemic and applied to the Republic of Croatia, but would only say here that it would be good for Croatia, that Croatian citizens should not be discriminated in this case because the question, which I did not understand your answer, is whether a Croatian citizen, if he has a spouse from another country, can he also have the right within the EU to go to that country, as this law will allow these spouses, if one of them is a citizen of the Republic, i.e. if he is from the Republic of Croatia and his spouse is from another country. So I think we need to discuss this extension here, these measures, in a way that we need to ask specific questions. I'm wondering if, I mean, we don't have any information, and we know that illegal migrant crossings, do they control themselves, do you have that information? Was there by any chance a virus in illegal entry and whether there was any new information in a way that we know that there was pressure on the border, that there were migrants in the area of our border, mainly inside BiH, we know that before this crisis there was a single migrant wave and there was a lot of entry of illegal migrants. That would be very important of you as a representative of the government and one of the key people of the MUP. I have seen here and questions for foreigners who have their own property, real estate or movement within the Republic of Croatia, we see that the minister is calling for tourism, while at the same time he is absolutely towards the domestic people, our people who are engaged in catering, food, this, restaurants that have, which hold the measure that exactly strengthens the muscles of inspectorates and Andrija Mikulić, right on these people. So you're now referring to it, while the inspectorate is making sense of stronger muscles on people who want to preserve jobs in hospitality, that it's just that inspectorate, it's visible that absolute dictatorship and self-will are in certain measures, but they're unclear measures, so people have hosts and not just now in tourism, in the catererer, if we talk about tourism, have a huge problem, so that this story of some relaxation would be good, it would be desirable, it would be good for the secretary to say what significant measures these are, but at this point we have a huge pressure from the state inspector, i.e. His inspectorate, Mikulic's inspectorate. We have brought here and the laws of Lex Mikulić, 52 laws we have changed here for 3 months to anchor and entangle Andrija Mikulić and to do a show, mainly to people entrepreneurs, watching if they have a table ahead, how they will leave food, if they will not leave it that way. Thus, you are called in one tourist country in this way, relaxing measures, and this is how you treat domestic entrepreneurs, i.e. To domestic hosts, here and citizens will recognize it more than scandalous and embarrassing at the same time that McDonald's, foreign banks are granted the same work that, of course, sells uninhabited food than harmful, import food, mostly GMO food that we don't promote, so it's a huge problem and one huge discrimination against our citizens, so I would like the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be equal to other people living in this area, i.e. to foreigners in this area who have a place of residence and a place of residence. Don't just beat our people like it was before and in the case, and I'd like it to be talked about today and... talk or that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken over, we know that the lack of workers is, for example, a lack of workers. was on agricultural matters, for example. Here for the season is strawberries, people who should be reading strawberries, that before, the good part, here in the Vrhoric area was from Herzegovina who were reading, that was one huge problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things need to be resolved so that our entrepreneurs can exist on the market. Unfortunately, we see that the repression of the inspectorate, the State Inspector and Andrija, this dictatorship of Andrija Mikulić is unbearable and we see that both the caterers and the entrepreneurs have stood up because simply this behavior is because they are also unclear measures, in fact measures are not the same. In the end, I would just say that in Croatia at this point we expect, you as a representative of the government, much stronger measures. These all the laws that we are making here are important, I think, but when we talk about laws then we should bring them under the urgency that we should no longer be courting these banks because I read I see a statement from the adviser of Andrej Plenkovic, who says that banks must have profit, no one has the right to take their profits away from them, and we know that banks have extra profits in the Republic of Croatia, I wish that it was moratorium law on loans and interest for our citizens, and that the Croatian government, prime minister and president do not kneel before banks, but simply as many other states at this point to bring meaning to the moratorium, and we Assembly representatives have to talk about it, Prime Minister, citizens want to listen to this story, they do not want to solve these problems because they are simply key problems. Or, for example, it would be desirable already if the law of, if from this year on, it is possible that foreign legal and natural persons can buy agricultural land, and in Croatia we have 700,000 unprocessed agricultural land we see that even the counties of those who destroyed farmers such as my Split-Dalmatia County are now calling for agriculture, so let's say we don't have the irrigation of the Sinj field, we don't have the Lower Vrhor field, we don't have the problem of the Imot field, and now those who have destroyed those who are responsible for the water supply they are calling for irrigation and are allegedly giving out much more serious measures, and now we see the prominent representatives of the Government, dear citizens, in this crisis we see how the Croatian state is guided and what policies that there are not self-sufficient, so they need much more serious laws. I also gave the law in the procedure, in an emergency procedure, that under emergency division of state land within two years, in two years of 400,000 hectares of state property less than 10,000 hectares were divided. So 1%, 2%, and that's what that land is now. While our farmers, now that we're talking about breakers in the Republic of Croatia who have residence, who have work permits and their families, we've moved out the whole of Slavonia, moved out my Dalmatian Zagora, and now they're still looking for those who take pictures at headquarters, now they're looking like they're being clapped, and they've destroyed both agriculture and livestock and banks and telecommunications, they've put everything in foreign hands. At this point, we need to talk about these laws, then there will be 9 laws given by MOST, but I expect this example of respected agriculture secretaries, because this is a very important area, labour forces are needed in agriculture, in the Republic of Croatia, for example. in this case, strawberry picking. This way I invite everyone, let's buy your homework, buy Vrgorje strawberries, buy our grandmothers, buy what's left in the Republic of Croatia. And I call on us to process our land and call on us to stop, ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons. And I invite you, Prime Minister, to finally have the Minister of Agriculture traded and the Minister of Agriculture finally split the land unprocessed. 400,000 hectares owned by the Republic of Croatia or taken from us by foreigners Hungary put it in the constitution. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200202	A colleague named Bacic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200203	Thank you, Vice President. Infringement of Rules of Procedure of Article 238, I am sorry that you did not warn your colleague Bulja who was constantly talking about this law and did not stick to the subject. It would even forgive him for opening up some bad topics especially about agriculture, and I am sorry what he said one lie, which is that the Split-Dalmatia County destroyed all farmers and I am sorry that he did not mention exactly the measures for farmers and businessmen who were presented in his Split-Dalmatia County and what he may not have commended. Exactly everything about what you mentioned and co-financing seasonal workers who will now bat strawberries and co-financing [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200204	Uh, it's true that my colleague Bulj is usually away from the subject, but this one, as far as these other things are concerned, I can't tell if anyone's telling the truth, whether anyone's telling a lie. It's rare for this guy to say anything and I'm not the one who can judge it, so it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure instead of the replica. Since there are no replicas in clubs, I know that some tend to abuse. From now on, I'm gonna make a warning about it. I'm warning you in advance. Here you go, buddy Bull. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200205	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He's hurt I'm gonna say a little bit, I didn't start talking, you'd like me to say before I get up, I can't. He was injured in Article 238, where a colleague told a lie, and you also wanted to confirm it, he told the truth that no agriculture was destroyed, that's what I said...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200206	Well, fellow Bull, you know, I just told my colleagues it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200207	You have destroyed agriculture, you have destroyed livestock farming, 100,000 people have moved out since the founding of the county, you are the undertakers of my Dalmatian Burn, and you can be ashamed and ashamed of everything you have done you have against the interest of the Croatian people in the area of Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200208	I'm asking you nicely not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are going to the next club of representatives, and this is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Balic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200209	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State Katic, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for supplementing the laws in question is the same, which is to suppress the spread of the coronary virus. It is indisputable that, due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, we all had to adapt our lives to new circumstances, resulting in most citizens having full changes in lifestyle and work. Participation in conferences, cultural and sports events is not possible, travel was the official one or the one with families had to be cancelled, all gatherings and gatherings will wait until further notice. It is absolutely certain that our daily life and the lives of all of us are changing, and that it will not be the same until the moment until a vaccine or medicine is found to contain this new disease or to obtain immunity. Unfortunately, we are fighting an invisible enemy that we can all overcome together by following the measures we have taken because by guarding ourselves, we protect others. The imperative of all activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which are primarily thought-out and responsible and based on the profession is to preserve the health and life of citizens. As we have also heard from the opening presentation, the aim of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Foreign Law is to enable third-country nationals to continue to use issued residence permits during the duration of the epidemic in order to continue uninterrupted stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is prescribed that actions in the administrative procedure that are nationals of third countries may be taken no later than 30 days after the end of the epidemic. I would not repeat exactly what the secretary of state said, so I would add that we hold that these contribute to the measures prescribed by the National Staff, all with the aim of protecting human lives and reducing the risk of spreading the pandemic of the coronary virus and will help foreigners enjoy regular stay and work in the Republic. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, it enables citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area to continue to use issued certificates on the application of a temporary stay and residence card during the course of the outbreak. And here is the prescribed deadline for taking the store no later than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. All measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during this difficult time due to the epidemic are carried out primarily as I have already pointed out for the protection of human lives and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to reduce the social contacts of citizens and reduce the need for contacts with officials in police administrations in order to combat the spread of the crown of the virus. What is also important to highlight is that by adopting the proposed additions to both laws, as well as by adopting the same Republic of Croatia protects fundamental rights, health and implements current recommendations and measures to combat the epidemic. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200210	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200211	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So, two laws that are de facto in the same category as a series of laws that we have already passed here, which is an extension of the duration of different documents, different documents on which people are identified or have a certain right, whether they stay anywhere, whether they are legitimate, whether they travel, whether they drive a car. So we have already extended the period of duration of ID cards, passports, driver's licenses and these two laws are in the same category, so on the one hand the extension of the residence permit to foreigners who have a residence permit and this residence permit is extended until the end of the epidemic plus 30 days, as well as all administrative actions related to it. The same applies to temporary residence cards and permits for citizens of the European Economic Area and members of their families. So I see absolutely nothing in dispute with either one, nor with another law fully in line with what we have already brought in this Parliament and which is the result of extraordinary circumstances. I would warn, however, on behalf of the GLAS Club on one fact, which is that in all these extensions, we are also passing the law on this, but also on other documents I mentioned earlier is always the deadline until the end of the epidemic plus 30 days. Now, let's say that the epidemic will last three months, it might take longer, I hope it won't, that all this will take three months, until the end is declared, and then you'll have 30 days for all the people who have expired any document to attack the police, the offices, the officers who will have to take it all out within 30 days. Some documents are like that, I warn simply that this could cause absolute chaos because everywhere the deadlines are the same. So some documents are of such nature that you have to give a short period. Some documents may, however, be of such a nature that the deadline can be extended, simply as they would now say at the time of the coronary virus to direct the curve, or to distribute for a long time, the search for these documents, the extension of these documents. Perhaps some documents can be used, this time can be used simply so that they can be obtained exclusively online, so by electronic means to avoid this crowd and the obvious rush that will occur, if we extend all the documents or deadlines for their validity as 30 days from the end of the epidemic. I'm warning you, people there are working on more experience with this, they're going to remember some more imaginative solutions, but we don't think it would be bad to start thinking about it now while it's time to avoid these crowds. The Voice Club will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200212	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Independent Youth List, which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200213	Dear Secretary of State, of course, that the bill's proposals are reasonable solutions that need to be passed and adopted in the Croatian Parliament and as such, they will be supported by our club because the question is someone who is here as a stranger, it is certain, especially to those persons something that is most important, as is the case for any citizen who is abroad, we see that during the past time, all countries and our country have tried to enable all our citizens to return to the country, and what is precisely what is the next step is that in the countries where our citizens are located, they are allowed to live as normally as possible, and so is our obligation to those who are with us, to ensure that they have as little discomfort as possible, and especially when we take into account that still our bureaucracy is more demanding, it takes a lot more to enable anyone to have any right, so that someone to stay with us and to obtain documents about it. In my opinion, this is a normal course, the issue of foreign citizens is becoming more and more current and when we talk about the events around the next tourist season. With, in the last few days, the situation with the status of the coronaryvirus in us getting better, it's getting stronger, it's becoming more and more emphasisary actually thinking about how to secure any tourist season in our country, and that actually gets foreign citizens to come to us, and then it's also a question of any of their rights that should be achieved in any situation in the Republic, even more demanding. Therefore, and it is always a question of reciprocity in these discussions that are being held, we must always demand and ask that we go to facilitate not only foreign citizens, but we should also make it easier for Croatian citizens to come to their country as easily as possible to produce any document and to come to institutions as little as possible. I think that we are at a turning point, not as far as foreigners are concerned, we could practically make one change in this way, in fact the whole social structure and the way that we function just to see that practical life is sometimes much more important, when the crisis shows how much the weight of all the shortcomings in which we often keep quiet as such. And then the question arises how are we going to bring a foreign tourist here, which we in fact in our entire system provide to all those who have difficulty. Because many are those who have their own objections to the functioning of the system, who have their real reasons why something might be difficult right now, but every tourist, a foreign citizen who comes to us, is primarily what interests him first is the matter of health care. Can we ensure absolutely normal functioning of the entire health system, that regular past the battle against the coronary virus? So it's one thing to view someone in the Republic of Croatia as a foreign citizen, as well as a Croatian citizen, and that is whether we are successful in fighting the coronavirus infection, on the other hand, whether we allow people with daily health problems, even those who would come to us in the country, to solve it. It's a step that we have to adopt in order to be successful towards anyone at all, and also towards foreigners. The second question that is raised in relations, these are now foreign relations, on the other hand, we have internal arrangements, the possibility of movement. We see that signs appear where our Prime Minister is having talks with his colleagues, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Austria, where you have made it possible for their tourists to come to us in a time when our man cannot, under the exception of going to a tourist destination, move. There's a little bit of that paradigm that's going on right now that's a little hard for someone like that to follow regularly. Okay, we're agreeing, we're going to let someone come as a tourist, and we're still living in a time of isolation that's for objective reasons is what it is, and now we've taken the first step, and I thank you here, for understanding those who've made decisions that the county area of those who think have a better epidemiological situation free to move and it's come to a positive step. Of course, as summer approaches, it will be a question of going primarily to Croatia's marine destinations, and then the second question will be, can I move there normally? Is, in what way is the system of overall protection actually organised and the same question is passed on to any foreign citizen because not everyone here is just for business reasons but there are even those who have come as tourists, they are being led as tourists but they are actually a more permanent time with us and they need certain rights and so are these rights that are now mentioned in the law. But we're always talking about foreign citizens and it's a question of reciprocity and keeping the figs in your pocket. As the talks that we're all going to end up watching because it's important for us to have a tourist season not only for tourism to happen but for everything that's related to spending in this tourism, somehow looking at those countries that are spoken to like Austria or the Czech Republic, let's look at what they're saying about us, how their politicians behave. One of the Austrians that we are fond of for their citizens to come to, has talks now at some level with us but their key politicians from their Prime Minister Kurtz and Minister Costinger are actually quite another point of view. They speak of it being, measures will be made easier and everything they remember mentioned, which is a recommendation for their citizens to stay in Austria for this tourist season and to think about how they will fill their domestic capacities and thus help the Austrian economy. And we see that this message is their tourist, it is much closer and simpler and in some ways more encouraging to their citizens where they are already announcing the possibility of summering, and they also limit it to the territory of the Republic of Austria and mention very little about the issue and the possibility of going to any country and also to Croatia. With the Czech Republic, communication may be something even better, watching the Prime Ministers talk but looking at their country president's statement. He's not the one who makes the decision but his recommendation is also important to their citizens and he says don't go abroad, borders should stay closed. So there is no reciprocity that we need to feel, does our media transmit that our government is talking, agreeing corridors, special arrivals, motorists from all these countries, and finally Germany says no, don't ic. We should then be in a matter that is regulated clearly that we are asking to be informed not only of the statements of our foreign affairs politicians but also of the issues, the same questions should also be asked to those countries, their ruling politicians, whom we want to see happen. And then come these practical issues that only when such a political agreement is reached which will be public and clear and reciprocal, then we can talk about everything we can and must give to any citizen of Croatia or a stranger, especially one who would come to Croatia to spend his vacation and to feel safe and also comfortable with what we offer. Here were the thoughts that I wanted to share about this, that the question of foreigners, of course, should be addressed, we should show solidarity, on the other hand, we should take care when we communicate relations with the abroad that we first solve relationships in the house and then when we get the impression that we are in free space, that we can also reason and that the same kind of freedom is given to anyone who comes and doesn't turn out to be people who believe that maybe any tourist from one Czech Republic would sooner come to sea than we will be able to move freely around Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200214	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic in the name of which time will be shared by the respected representative Zekanovic and Glasnović and the first respected representative of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200215	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have no President-in-Office of the Parliament today, he went to Jasenovac together with Mr. Kitazi, a member of the Roma national minority, together with Milorad Pupovac, a member of the Serb national minority, together with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and together with the President of the Republic, means Zoran Milanovic. They all went to Jasenovac today, so here you are today. Every site, I've already talked about, needs to be learned the truth and every victim deserves a deep and Christian and human piety. When we talk about the Foreign Law, this is logical to extend the possibility of staying in Croatia for a month, but I have to ask one question here that needs to be imposed, we have some immigration, we have people coming from outside to Croatia, but we don't, because we don't have enough workforce, is the solution to import labour? Does the solution mean that without restrictions we receive foreigners or perhaps the solution is the demographic reconstruction of Croatia and the return of Croats outside, which are now in the diaspora or emigration? I think the solution is this other. Unfortunately, all EU countries, so our Croatia has always been able to access those easiest measures, let's just introduce the workforce a little bit, let's let the foreigners be there as long as they want, let them work, and then we'll solve the problem of labour shortages. But that's not the answer. I'm using a respected secretary of state here as an opportunity to ask one question, so maybe later if you're able to give an answer, it's not directly on the subject, but it's about the migrant crisis. Here, we have no information about the mainstream media because it's all complete it's closed, blocked, there only see those few people from HDZ who are members of the civilian headquarters, who provide daily information about the coronary virus, etc. But I'm also interested in citizens, what about the migrant crisis? So, just a little bit of data. Is there still an active Balkan route, are migrants there at the border of Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey entering the EU? Are there any migrants in BiH today? Do we have an inflow of migrants there? What's the situation in Bihac and Kladuma? And of course, most importantly, what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia? I hear all sorts of rumors, I wouldn't like to say anything here that's true, but here you'd like to hear what the situation is with the migrant crisis and are you, is that the trend of migrant passages through the Republic of Croatia downgraded, or is it still dropping or continuing? That's what the Croats are interested in. And the other thing, I'm sorry that Minister Bozinovic is not here as president of the Civil Protection Staff, and I would like to hear from him when he thinks he finally gives in these measures because, with all due respect to epidemiologists, I think we will suffer a lot more as a state of economic crisis than the economic crisis, so all these measures are released. And finally, one thing that is not directly related to this law, but I must mention it because on my heart, there is one measure that the minister, which is actually the legislator of this law, and it doesn't make any sense, and I see that some bishops of rebellion are also asking for the mitigation of this measure, the Holy Mass. So, Poland has a model that sacred Masses can be maintained, so I don't see why it would finally not intersect and find some model with a social distance that people other than those virtual sacred masses, which are some kind of substitut, can't say, can still access those sacred masses live. That means a lot of people, I'll even say life, so you should think about it. Thank you. Here comes my colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200216	Dear Representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200217	Dear colleagues, draft law supplementing the Foreign Law. I read that law. In that law, COVI-19 SARS is mentioned 14 times, 14 times. It means the law, the law has been passed and the final proposal for an emergency this procedure is also a proposal, which means we have passed the law quickly. Emergency atmosphere. And I'm wondering now, if that's the case, how come we're not, we're waiting a quarter of a century, 30 years. to bring the Law on Croats out of country, we haven't done it yet. It's nebulosis, exactly nebulosis. There are some people sitting, the left wing of a party that is pathologically hating everything that is Croatian, from the beginning, that's how they cooperate, and today we see this hatred that we and we are breaking this law, and the Croats in BiH who are an integral part of the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia have constitutional obligations to protect that people there because our border is thousands and miles away. Already, look how much, Mr. Ostojić I'm telling you, how many Croats from BiH died in the defence of Vukovar, look at the percentage in HV, HV. You are today rebelling against 45 million kunas which went into, it's a blastemia, to a bridge hospital. There are Croatian children down there. Because the Croats sent you in the war, I know because I was a commander, I'm a Croatian general, they were sending help droppers to Vukovar, four choir areas were bleeding in BiH. It is the Bosnian Posavina, where most Croats died, central Bosnia, north-western Herzegovina and Mostar that we have today, that we sit today and express our views on this in the Croatian National Assembly. 45 million kunas, I've never heard anyone object to, say, this one for half a billion, more than half a billion kuna given to a church that's a national church. A sect called the Serbian Orthodox Church, no one objected to it. More than half a billion kuna and we also pay for it in Italy and Slovenia, paid by the Croatian tax collector, I don't hear that rebellion. I don't hear a rebellion for the former resuming communists of their children run by NGOs, who have only one task, which is holding the Republic of Croatia on the indictee bench in front of international courts and the world public. I didn't hear that rebellion. I have not heard that you have ever spoken that this Croatian state is in addition to the trades of Croats from BiH, plus hundreds of millions of kunas. That's where our products go. It's not just a matter of economy, it's a strategic issue because if it wasn't for those... Assembly areas today you would not have a Croatian state, and your mujahadins would be down in the Neretva Valley. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know because I ran three of those four choir areas there. It's a historical truth. The historical truth doesn't care. Also, the Croats are not interested in sending 16 billion kunas out there, that's not what people are interested in, and that some of them have retired here, they've got double taxation, that's not what people are interested in. But what's scary is that I'm working on media in a coalition with someone, not Croatian organisations and parties, taking advantage of that ignorance against the Croatian people. And a full stop is shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200218	A fellow Glasnović?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200219	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200220	The subject is the Law supplementing the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200221	That's what I'm saying. I'm going back to law school. I'm going back to law school. The criteria, so wait, we also have sharp criteria, criteria for, what are the criteria, let's say for this stay, what are we talking about? We're very quick to do this, for, for, for extended, extension of temporary residence permits, for permanent stay, what are the criteria? Because it's faith, it's Catholics from Syria, it's deficiting interests what we need here, we, we can't get more plumbers here, what are the criteria, what are the corresponding criteria, and I'm going back to this and we still don't have the law, the criteria for Croats outside the country. Scary. Scary. We have some countries, let's say there's a quota, the state of Québec, the province of Québec in Canada has a quota. Canada has a quota for staying, for the arrival of 320 and a few thousand immigrants by the end of this year. In the province of Québec, those who come to the new Canadians must complete a test, a test of language, history. I just hope they don't repeat here the history test written by our southern historians and what we heard this morning, that they won't have to watch this violence against our history, the falsification of an activist and lesbian rights that isn't even... Neither historian nor historian, and this forger, mentioned by Mr. Zekanovic this morning, MP Zekanovic, is calling this Djana Budisavljevic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the director of this violence and masochism that we're doing here in the Parliament today, masochism, it's a historical falsification. Each victim has his own name, and these victims are not allowed to be instrumentsized because the truth has no ideological omen. By that, it's terrifying that we are sitting in this House today discussing these issues, none that have been resolved today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200222	Thank you very much. Buddy Bull, are you something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200223	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club on the subject of amending the law, supplementing the Foreign Law, to consult at the club. I'd say this law makes it easier, i.e. It extends to foreigners who have a stay and residence in the Republic of Croatia in a way that we simply have to talk here and about people, Croatian citizens who are outside, what measures they have towards them are related, i.e. Croatian citizens. We need to talk about whether at this point the measures we have towards foreigners, when they were never again needed by foreigners, in which way we observe the migrant, too, migrant crisis. Do we have any information, I was saying on behalf of the club, do we have illegal migrants? How many illegal migrants do we have? People in the border area tell me that there's a large number of migrants because they're left with slaves, all that's left. Do you have that information and do you control it from and from this, do they have a coronary virus? Do you have any information? That's what all of a sudden there was silence. In this House we should also discuss these topics, the law is on foreigners, the extension of their stay, permission, permission to be there, however, what about Croatian citizens and measures? According to Croatian citizens, discrimination and repression by institutions, the prominent representative of the government, such as from the inspectorate of state Andrija Mikulic towards our domestic hosts, is solely for the sake of discrimination and repression. We can't just look at foreign interests, and we can't look at the interests of our people in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I invite you to watch interests of Croatian citizens. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200224	I'll see you five minutes is a break. I'll see you in 11 and 53 minutes. [[It's 11:00.48.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:55 A.M.]] Here's a break, so I'm going to ask that on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word is taken by a respected representative, Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200226	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Minister and I purposely call you Deputy Minister because you are always there, so instead of a minister who is not worthy of coming to this House, I'm going to say at first that one of the things that we have committed to in our oath as parliamentary deputies, I'm going to speak the truth, and I'm also going to try to defend myself from everything that my colleagues are allowed to do earlier, and that is to say, by name and last name, that in a short situation, and that's that the rebel director of the Bridge Hospital has been allowed. He said "you don't want money." So much for how much joy you receive from your meanings, your countrymen and neighboring countries. What I want to highlight is, this is the moment in which you should choose priorities and while our hospitals are down, then the first decision should probably be made and as far as Croats are concerned outside the country, then I must stress that one of the things is not just a matter of how they become members of a social community already has one obligation that is very important and that they pay taxes in that same state. So let us start by paying taxes, paying something that is our constitutional right, the right to health and the right to health care, and in these moments many take advantage of and still make fun of what they can do whenever they want, whatever they want and come to hospitals without any compensation and never even thinking about who pays for it. Our taxpayers pay, we pay. As for my expectations today, I believed that in addition to a unique memorial in Jasenovac, that even here as usual, we would have at least a minute of silence for people who went to the breakthrough on April 22, 1945, but again I will only speak the truth and then, with the cry "Forward, comrades!", Ante Bakovic, a 24-year-old Sinjanin, a camper, led 600 people into a breakthrough. They were the ones who were able to move, those were the ones who refused to reconcile with the near and unquestionable death after she was killed, the women in the women's part of the camp were killed, after the children were killed, it was clear that they would be killed too. Of the 600 men in the breach, 106 survived. 473 sick old and powerless, were killed and burned on the same day. So much for 1073 campers left alive at that moment, therefore, that's true. And that's why it's good to have a movie today that's going to be screened and for each other's sakes and it's good for some to learn the truth about that history. Secondly, I still want to say that, which is, I don't need anyone here to figure out what the contribution is. I'm a member of an independent Split volunteer battalion, I'm a member of the 141st brigade, I'm a volunteer of the Homeland War, I'm the one who's been on all these lines you're talking about, and when you're talking about the dead, then you should remember those who died behind the Storm on Graham and 141st brigades. I'm back on the subject now, I just used what was given to everyone else. [[Intruder Reiner: Col. Ostojić, excuse me, please return to the topic, supplement of the Foreign Law.]] We have today two similar laws, an extension, similar to what we've had so far. It's a clean throw of dust in the eyes, and it's that actually real things like I asked you to do before, we don't get on the table. We don't have a crisis profit or anti-crisis profiting or anti-profit policy here today, we don't have changes to the CAP, because at this point the police have to record the video and can't, it has to be in a situation where they file criminal charges, courts don't work, this has become a haven for criminals, but it obviously isn't important and important things at this point for these laws to be implemented, but therefore for these extensions that I think even, could be in the variant that they could be given as well as instructions. The moment 950,000 passes were issued, 950,000 e-passes, we have a situation to reduce social contacts, we're passing this kind of law, and at the same time you're actually sending a message that instead of using this to solve the issue in the accelerated electronic progress of the MUP, you're actually sending a message that we're going to go back to the Stone Age. An example that speaks of how it is done, which is the question of residence and residence. You yourself said that foreigners under this law who can come to their dwellings, residences will perhaps go into isolation or something, but they will power into their cottages. That is why time, a Croatian citizen in the Republic of Croatia, has been denied the right to change residence and residence. Who in this country has the right to suspend the law and I don't know by whose decision? If that's the variant that someone calls on the government's 7th head any decision on how the civil servants are going to work, yes, but it says that it's possible electronically. Electronicly it was possible to change the residence before, so this only says how the law is not respected by that ministry that you expect to be first in respect of the law. As for limiting freedom without a solution, constitutional right to appeal, it obviously doesn't matter. Today, it is not decided that Beroš and Markotic become members of the headquarters, the solution was adopted on February 20th, and we do not have such a supplement, and it is so simple that at least we do not bring those people into a situation to actually be associated, random for 50 days. What is true, and this is SDP has given measures both to restore the health system to normal and the economy. We hope that these things will still be heard with seriousness for the reasons that so far we have talked about both passes and some other measures, which is that we will be unique and complex about all those good measures, but we will not be silent about the missed, and especially illegal measures. For this reason, it is not a question of supporting this law that it is quite certain that the law can be, passing, not at all a problem. But I'm talking about it, which is that in this way, you probably have a supply and some other extensions and so forth, in this assembly that works no matter what is not an emergency, no matter what is not a war, no matter what is not a disaster, we're in a situation today that we have to actually get laws that I won't say are unnecessary, but they're really not priority. People aren't numbers, headquarters should be an operational body, they can't replace parliament in any way, and therefore they should come to the table with those measures that are also the laws that are precisely in order to solve the situation we currently have. I will also mention the following, which is about uniforms, five-colonguers, letters, sending, mass gatherings of two women, breaking up the same, sick mothers who are trying to get to the hospital, and I can't bring a child, I must tell you that at this point in time, there are life-threatening citizens whose political decision of headquarters to freeze the regular health system is endangering life. It's something that needs to be dealt with urgently because other diseases are not waiting for you either. So if we agree that people are not figures, then we will probably be able to get to the point that constitutional and human rights that are prescribed in our basic document will not be violated. So much for me for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200227	Representative Glasnovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200228	Well, that's Article 238, I think more manipulation and half-truth was spoken than.../incomprehensible/... first of all, when it comes to this tax, Croats are 16 billion kunas every year coming here outside their homeland and you've thrown double taxation on those who have returned, and you didn't object when you paid 10 thousand pensions in Serbia, you didn't object. And what contribution did they make to this country? That's, there's a lot more to what I'd say here, I don't have time right now. I'm looking for a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200229	Thank you very much. This, of course, has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you again not to abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to have to give you a heads-up again, and I thought you calmed down, but I guess some things don't work at all. I will now ask on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the respected representative of Vlah Orepic to perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200230	Dear Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, I want to take the opportunity to begin at the beginning, and in the name of the club, to honor the innocent victims of the Independent State of Croatia as the greatest disgrace of the Croatian people in history, and in this spirit, I welcome the unity of the state summit, which has gone to honor, or to commemorate the innocent sacrifice. As far as these concrete proposals are concerned, if we look at them in isolation, we can say that there is nothing unacceptable about it because it solves some kind of problem that we have encountered because of something we have just called an epidemic. And that was voted by a man or civil protection headquarters who didn't have to do it, but here's the situation. What am I saying? That this is one in a series of legislative proposals that all of us here together, all of us here and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to be concerned. Why? We have become so tolerant of an unparliamentary procedure, of an unparliamentary behaviour in this country of Croatia that it is worrying. Everyone, almost all the laws are passed by revote and haste procedure. The formal or informally called community of some kind, and each occasion, a unique opportunity to achieve a social consensus, one political consensus of the common political being of the Republic of Croatia and you watch out for it, the only legal possibility to deal with this crisis is the consensus and community that is united in law and that is totally ignored in this situation, which is the Law on the Homeland Security System. Why? Just so we don't declare that we're in a crisis. We are in crisis by all indicators, and it should be, the inter-resor body should declare this because it is the only authority under the State Security System Act to propose to the Government to pass the law, to vote the crisis, to propose bodies that will manage the crisis and to propose measures that will respond to this crisis. In that spirit, this, these suggestions of yours that are individually acceptable because they solve some practical life problem are totally unacceptable because they are part of a worrying non-democratic practice in the Republic which, in some ways, mutated into a pathological state. The pathological state in relation to what we need to have here, or we need to be the mirror of a democratic society. A problem that no one has ever covered in this particular issue when we talk about foreigners. We have a category of people who look like this. So, after the Homeland War 134,000 documents were given to people who moved out of the Republic of Croatia and no longer live in the Republic of Croatia, who have, to put it in public, the papers of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Homeland War here, at least 250 000 documents, Croatian documents from residence and citizenship have been given to people who have never lived in the Republic of Croatia. And we're talking about a sum of 384 000 people. The 384 000 formal population of the Republic of Croatia now accounts for nearly 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, which we say if we assume there are 4 million of us. But that's not the problem either. Non-resolvement of fictitious residences reflects this situation significantly. We have a situation that out of 384 000, it's safe, I'm talking about minimum numbers, a minimum of 100,000 which temporarily, which is constantly working in the Republic of Croatia. Let's just say that's not a problem either. But we have one problem that we face every day, which is several thousand people on a daily basis crossing the border from the Republic of Serbia towards the country where they live, mainly the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH. On a daily basis, people go to sleep after work in Serbia or BiH and return to work in the Republic of Croatia the next day. And here, by not consulting this high house, we deny the movement of our citizens. Why? Just because we're in an election campaign. I don't see any other rational explanation. The only rational explanation of why political and overall social consensus in the Republic of Croatia does not want to be achieved on this issue is a purely pre-election campaign, that is, for political purposes. And it worries me, and it amazes me, and it's simply unacceptable. We must fight against it literally by all means. That's inadmissible. I'll finish with the simple stuff. Given the problems, the practical life problems this proposal changes and complements will help our club support it, but in all possible ways we will try to point out and ask that the government's final action is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the existing law of the Republic of Croatia. You just can't work like this. No one has the right, and it's constantly done, which is evidence last week of the passed law. Look, I think it's the only experience in the history of all democracy, to pass laws, amendments and additions to laws that cover the month and a half of the illegality of the government's work. That's terrible. Dear citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues, we must not allow the violation of democracy, parliamentary practice in this high house and in our society at all because of this call for the necessary resolution of the crisis we have encountered, the situation we have encountered because it is not true. The truth is that if the government continues to run this business, it deals exclusively with pre-election campaigns, not solving life rather than solving the life problem that we see and clearly recognize in this pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200231	The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sauch will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. These two laws today that are ahead of us are actually the logical continuation of that set of laws that we passed two or three weeks ago when we were sitting in the old building of the INA and in fact it is going to reduce the social contact of users, older users, citizens who should at this point mean changing certain documents or we should get some of the certificates within the services they provide, providing the MUP in their own, their own facilities. And, therefore, these two laws, the draft law supplementing the Law on Foreigners and the proposal of the Law on, means to the citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and their family members, in parallel, to simply confirm that they have received about their stay here in the Republic of Croatia and all those documents that are bound to do so remain valid for the duration of this pandemic up to 30 days after the end of the pandemic. I would like to look back here in fact, I just want to say, of course, that these two laws are common sense, that they are in the office, that they are correct and that, of course, the NNS Club will support them, just as we have supported these laws regarding the extension of the validity of personal documents, so ID cards, passports, driver's licenses. However, he would like to look back, as Mrs. Prof. Pusic and I think that there is absolutely right, that it might come very easily to one suppression of the system after it comes to an end, the official termination of the end of this pandemic, and where we will then return to the condition in which we were previously, so that for any confirmation or any document goes personally to the police administration, which I do not think is good, in this particular case, there will surely have to be one suppression, and people will probably wait for the exercise of their rights i.e. I don't know how it's going to be regulated at that point. This one, as we've heard many times, this epidemic, and one day it stops, i.e. When the epidemic officially ceases, the danger of the virus itself will surely not disappear forever at least until the vaccine is found and my hair lifts up on my head from thinking that after the outbreak is formally stopped, after all these people who are now in a position not to be able to exercise their rights. I can't raise my ID, passport, driver's license, I don't know, check out my residence, residence, etc., now all of a sudden, crowd up into these police administrations, there's going to be an insufferable rush again, there's going to be a closer contact, so exactly the opposite of what they're telling us all the time that we're going to change our lives, that we're never going to be in a position again, and that when that epidemic stops, we're back in that close social contact. I think this is one moment when you really should as a state do everything to make that concept of previous, therefore coming physically personal, coming into the offices of the MUP, to reduce as much as possible, to reduce, therefore, to allow for all those documents for which you really do not absolutely need personal contact, so the arrival of citizens, to enable the extraction of such documents through the E-Citizen system. Of course, in situations where a fingerprint is to be given, it is unfortunately impossible to replace it but, unfortunately, once these personal data are given as a fingerprint, I think the fingerprint doesn't change with years, after having a recent photo, it also takes several certain years, so that it is possible for a citizen from the safety of his home at a time when he answers, to fill out the required forms, to pay certain fees that need to be paid, it doesn't always have to be through famous and legendary tags, but it can probably be paid and made through general payments, means Internet banking, in other words, to make all of this from home and then at home address within a certain time limit, the person arrives at the recommended post office of a particular document. I don't see why we would actually provide for these laws to return to what was before, instead of saying that in the end, that in some way and stimulates citizens that in this period when some are in isolation and have extra time, they might master the use of this system of e-citizens and that in this period they are now making what they should possibly wait for when one day the epidemic passes. I personally, I tried to use myself the other day with the E-Citizens system and I have to admit that it's quite infamous, it's not as simple as I hoped it was, but yet, I mean, nothing is so complicated that man couldn't handle it with a little effort. So, perhaps on the one hand, some suggestion to the Ministry of Administration which is responsible for the system of E-Citizens that the instructions for use are little, how can I say, in layian language written, so that this and the user friendlyly, as he throws my colleague out of the background, to make it a little easier for us who are not informationally verifiable and on the other hand, I also say to the MUP that as much as possible allow the use of this system and to bypass that direct contact with the counter. I mean, here's what the secretary of state told me that the offices in Petrinjska were devastated in an earthquake, they moved to Heinzel's, it's a slightly bigger building, but whoever was in Heinzel or worse, in Petrinjska, knows what kind of space it was. There, I mean, there was one epidemiological bomb, whether it was a coronary virus or any other, I don't know, any other virus at that point, no. I mean, and that system of taking a note, so now you're the one and that order absolutely doesn't work, people know literally 5, 6 take those notes, they throw them on the floor, they go, nobody knows when it's coming, mostly, you're still doomed to sit there or stand there and wait forever, no. So it's a waste of time for people who should be working for that time and, of course, putting them at risk and officials and citizens and everyone else. I think it might be good for a word of one information that I don't know if the Secretary of State said, but here I will take this opportunity because I have been consulting with him because it was personally of interest to me, so that there is a possibility at this time of application/department means extension of residence and registration/department of residence in a particularly justified situation i.e. Circumstances. So, everyone can go to the MUP sites, it's quite nice to point out and see, at least at this point, the list of exceptions from the general suspension of the application/departure of residence and residence, that I don't now list them, they're listed on the pages, so if you go into that category, you can make an appointment via mail or phone, and you can sort out this situation, so you don't necessarily have to wait for this pandemic to pass and then enter into that one chaos. I mean chaos, there's a crowd that'll come after that. So, with these kind of observations I don't know, I can say that the HNS Club certainly supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200233	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200234	Thank you very much. Secretary, respected citizens, representative of the government, the laws we passed when the municipalities were closed yesterday, you couldn't from the municipality to the municipality there was a huge burden on Croatian police officers, I wish you'd given them an addendum to the coronary virus if there were six municipalities and local self-government in the Ceti area alone, everywhere there were blockades so that you exhausted people. We see an illogical structure at the same time in the county, and at the same time we can go this, here we talk about the Foreign Law which also, I agree, could be made by some decision extension, not debate, we have much more important things, we see.../incomprehensible/... The Republic of Croatia means the construction units themselves, that we have counties which are a problem because of the institution owned, i.e. For a county-owned facility. In my county, we have a lot of problems about the coronary virus. We would simply have to talk a lot more seriously about forming the Republic of Croatia, and right now the law should be here, it would be easier for the police to do this on the subject of formation because simple counties are pointless and the triba to terminate them immediately, while at the same time we are here talking about the Law on Detentions, the extension of their residence or work permits of what they need in the Republic of Croatia. While at the same time our citizens who have been paying 6.5% of GDP into the Republic budget, somewhere around 20 billion kunas that have been evicted by the governments of the Republic of Croatia are the ones who are paying that kind of money are currently this one out there in other countries, they are a website in other countries. As they send money here and no one mentions it, the way they return, as it is in these countries, whether they are granted an extended permit, is not extended to them and how they are treated is good, with tourism the most payments are from the signs of those you have spent with your policies. And speaking of this foreign law, I was asking one key question. What about migrants illegally? There's a way in. What is that number, and did you control it from the coronary virus, while at the same time we see that the headquarters blocked all the municipalities, all the cities by its decision. Is there or isn't there? And did you control them? Did they run tests on the coronary virus? These are the things we need to talk about. However, in this assembly in this debate, here are the Ustashas and the Partisans I see, today there have been discussions about it even though it is off topic, which means we are going back to day-to-day settled politics, but I would like to talk here about the problems that quieten our citizens. It's a declaration for our fishermen, an exclusive economic belt. To ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons, to divide the country into our peasant and to return the village 800,000 hectares of agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture is doing nothing, to finally put what we propose to the moratorium for a year on interest and loans that this government no longer be, the distinguished representative of the government of the rights of bankers, rather than to fight for the rights of Croatian people, Croatian people and his problems. These would be the topics we should be discussing here right now. And no, there was everything here, and I was warned by what I mentioned about agriculture. Of course I mentioned agriculture when there's no one to farm land. And that's a question of strangers because the foreigners will buy it, and our children will dig on our cause for foreign interests. And of course we're finally going to destroy that import lobby. To destroy that and the crown lobby, he continued, he was before the import lobby, now he's a crown lobby because we see that we have Greek strawberries on shelves, we have all the products, and we don't have enough Croatian. I expect that we will finally fight for the Croatian people and make decisions in the interest of the Croatian people and Croatian survival, Croats to survive in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200235	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, you spoke of this Foreigner Act, that the Foreigner Act should therefore be passed, and therefore it is necessary. It seems to me that sometimes our government, most of the time, acts as if our citizens are foreigners, and here's one example of the orderly refusal of electronic voting, so for people outside the country, they're foreigners, not our citizens, and that's exactly the people who moved out because of such policies. And they've been evicted by 1,000 and 1,000, and now we're getting messages that they're not actually our citizens because they're going to vote in countries that have therefore protective measures if they're not allowed to vote electronically and by letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200237	Dear Representative Bulj,.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200238	These are issues from those who are paying into the budget, and Croatian policies have pushed them out, even to say unanimously both HDZ and Arsen Bauk SDP are not an electronic vote because the diaspora will get the opportunity to vote. But the diaspora has the right to three MPs as many as voted to vote. However, there are people who have moved out, empty is Slavonia, my Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Lika, who have moved out in recent years because of policies that are being implemented in the Republic of Croatia to the detriment of Croatian people. And why don't we give him an electronic vote? And I don't understand how HDZ and SDP are unique. But this government of Andrej Plenkovic is recognizable in the fact that it stepped on the referendum and spit 400,000 people in the face by not allowing a referendum, it was the People's Decision initiative on this matter where the electronic vote would be resolved, and MOST also gave the proposal, the conclusion, and We also have a legal initiative. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200239	The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200240	Dear Representative Bulj, I would like to say that at the same time as our citizens are being harassed by quarantine, while Croatian police are stopping citizens all over the country for no reasonable reason, at the same time many illegal migrants are illegally crossing our border, but obviously nobody cares because our government serves a global agenda, an agenda aimed at replacing the structures of the European population and destroying the middle class economically. I'm surprised at the people who support her in the elections, I can't understand them, I can't understand them, and I just hope that my own people will open their eyes and that when they're elected they won't vote for those who hold them in quarantine and isolation but for those who want to free them and who want to move the police or the repressive apparatus to our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200241	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200242	And the primary question at this point is that. And we've been setting it up all morning. Here, I've asked the question 10 times. Whether there are illegal migrants and whether they are tested by coronaryvirus if we have measures and, if we do, it means taking away certain freedoms from Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens. And we haven't received that answer yet because the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the first, our neighbouring countries haven't, flew to accept the Marekekje dispute, the Marekek compact as a rescue, will be saved by the Marekje agreement. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, representative of the MUP, secretary of state, are there any illegal entry of migrants and how many have you tested since the coronary virus? So do you have that information and they come in every day? There are many in Bosnia here, along the border of the Republic of Croatia, and no one is talking about it. Why? Because you don't care, it's more important to control Croatian citizens and introduce mobile tracking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200243	The following is the replica of the respected representative, Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200244	Dear fellow Bully, today was not a return to the debate of partisans and Ustasha, it was a little different, and that was related to truth and Croatianism. And I'm going to quote my colleague Vučetic, he's not here today, but he's going to talk about it on Friday, so I'm taking the right to say his status. "Croatia was achieved in the anti-fascist movement, not in the fascist riot. Croatia was captured and imprisoned in Jasenovac." Therefore, don't forget some things, the question of the truth, and about electronic voting you have a list of parliamentary issues, so look at the RS government's answer to my question of electronic voting before the European elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200245	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200246	Col. Ostojic, there is, means the EU Declaration that all totalitarian regimes should be condemned and bowed down to all victims both communist and fascist and Nazi. And God never lets God repeat the sentence your colleague Nenad Stazic said to Bleiburg until '45. The winner didn't finish his job, that he had to kill everything he had to kill. I can't even say it in my sleep. That's the kind of thing we need to build on, not share on victims. And not as it is today from Jasenovac, a message is being sent that Hos plates should be removed and thrown into trash from people like Redkappa, from people from Vukovar who fought alongside us in the Homeland War, condemning these people and thus doing the division. No, let's bow down to all the victims, but let's fence ourselves from the words that are, calling for a clone, which calls for killings and crimes as your colleague Stazic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200247	The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200248	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you've talked a little bit about the movements of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Corona in the world did, we all know what. Our government has limited itself and made a row in that part of the movement. I'm asking you who's the most damaged here? Most damaged craftsman and, and entrepreneur. Everyone who's on the budget has gone far the best. Therefore, this government has done everything and singled out the budget, second in Europe, only Malta has more singled out of the budget, second in GDP has singled out the second Republic of Croatia which has given to entrepreneurs, and we must praise it rather than criticise it. And let's look at how many of us have patients in the Republic of Croatia compared to all the neighboring countries. So this is what we need to talk about positively and say that this government did one real thing that it didn't, God forbid some of them were sloppy, so he said money is important to us, let's open the borders and make business work. Today we'd have a lot of hospitals and thousands of sick people in hospitals and... buried like in Italy and Spain. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200249	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200250	Dear fellow Members, as an opposition and as a club of MOST, we accepted all government proposals, and when we gave in the first set of measures we gave amendments that were accepted, the government only, as a club, accepted in the second set and we accepted all the measures that we believe should be accepted. However, I agree with you that both the entrepreneur and the craftsman are damaged, but they are not bankers whose government, whom you praise, is nothing. That's why we Parliamentarians have to vote this out if the banks have extra profits. The craftsmen and the caterers are damaged, and now they are being damaged by the very government inspectorate appointed by this government, Andrija Mikulić, who closes people because of what they had in front of them, where they left food, and not by McDonald's, they also benefit from foreign bankers. Now, there's a problem that always destroys domestically, and you're witnesses, you come from Slavonia, which is made for the Croatian craftsman and farmer and peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200251	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200252	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although it is difficult for many to admit it, and the figures do not lie happily, Croatia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the epidemic of the coronary virus and at the rate of the infected and at the rate of mortality. That's what the following data tells us. Belgium has 492 deaths per million inhabitants, Spain 437, Italy 390, France 303, Great Britain 238, Netherlands 216, Switzerland 162, Sweden 153, Denmark 61, Germany 54, Austria 50, Slovenia 35, Norway 30, Hungary 19, Czech Republic 17, Croatia 11, Poland 9, Slovakia 2. From this point on, we can conclude that the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the National Crisis Centre are making the necessary decisions in due time, all services and institutions are doing their job well, as well as that citizens stick to these recommendations and instructions. In order to continue to successfully fight an outbreak of the coronary virus, it is important to further reduce social contact. For these very reasons, i.e. that the fewer citizens are coming to the police station counters, the government recently sent additionals to the emergency parliamentary procedure to the 4th laws extending the period of validity for IDs, passports, driver's licenses, weapons lists, at least 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. Today we are discussing a similar topic. extending the validity of certificates on the application of temporary stay and residence cards for nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and permitting residence for third-country nationals. All these documents issued will be valid for them 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic or any prescribed action that is required under the administrative procedure may be carried out within that time limit. All of them would be able to stay in the Republic during the duration of the epidemic. As we discuss the fight against the crown of the virus, and then the consequences at county and local levels were, for example, minor discrepancies as to what some newspaper articles tell us. So I quote “The parish headquarters warned the Varazdin doctors because they do not follow the instructions, this is their answer” near the quote. And it's about the media correspondence of family medicine doctors and the county headquarters of the Varazdin County, which is run by no less than the deputy mayor in charge of health care, and thus is also the parent home of health that these doctors belong to. I don't know where else that deputy mayor is and the head of the county headquarters during this crisis with doctors communicates through the media. Then, he quotes "The rational and cautious move of General Hospital Director Varazdin or the actual shortage of protective masks" by the quote. This article shows that the chief concern of the Director of the General Hospital in Varazdin was the distribution of protective masks. Then a series of articles on some new structure, new areas, new coordinations and civil protection structures, etc., and recently on measures to save the economy. So the president of the Varazdin County Chamber of craftsmen says, quotes "The most important agreement was reached with the Varazdin County, full consent and understanding of the problem which is in line with both the intentions and possibilities of the county" by the quote. This is about establishing a county solidarity fund for craftsmen. The fund plans to collect about a million and a half kuna to help craftsmen in this crisis. Of course, any assistance is welcome, but do these experts really consider a Varazdin economy that makes up more than 6,600 crafts and companies active about 26 billion kunas to be saved with a million and a half kuna. What about the unemployed, what about the O.P.G.? On the contrary, the government has allocated around 200 million kuna to save jobs in the area of the Varazdin County, which is obvious to those experts nothing. Regardless of all these regional local considerations, the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic enjoys no greater support, 94% of citizens believe that the government is taking appropriate measures in the battle with the coronary epidemic, 80% that it is dealing well with the effects of the coronary virus, and over 50% thinks that Croatia is going in the right direction. He therefore considers it desirable to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200253	I'm asking you to stick to the subject. So far we're starting to leave more and more, there's both Ustasha and Partisan and this and that, let's please stick to the subject, there are two laws to discuss, and we have a free speech, we've had free speeches, we'll have it tomorrow, we can talk about whatever we want. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200254	Thank you very much. Mr. Strick, you have questioned the desire and intention of helping the Varazdin County of Mr. Cacic, who probably has more knowledge of the economy than the entire economic part of the Government headed by Darko Horvat, when all are summed up together. But I'm curious as to why you're not so critical of the state's HOK or the craft chamber where Mr. Ranogajek stands on the presses of Andrija Mikulić. So a man stands behind Andrija Mikulić for whom, your party colleague from the City of Zagreb, for whom 90% of entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia probably thinks he should resign after this measure on Saturday when he closed a restaurant for a table in front of him. So why aren't you so critical of these entrepreneurs? They recognize it as harmful, and you've come across a small chateau that's correct. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200255	Although, of course, that doesn't have anything to do with it either, the Honorable Agent Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200256	If you listened well to me, I did not criticise anyone, I merely cited the figures and the exact amount of these measures and support by the county, by the government and everyone involved. I don't know who I was criticizing, the projects don't lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200257	Replica has a respected representative, Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200258	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Strick, you mentioned quite a lot in your discussion exactly the measures of the government, and especially the MUP as the person who has been in the system and the defence for a long time, but I am also interested in the MUP himself, so why do you think that, in comparison, what you have read, of all countries we are so successful and so we have better indicators than others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200259	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200260	Thanks, buddy. First of all, I believe that the government has taken all the measures in time, then the profession has been heard, and among other things, for a wonderful miracle, the citizens are more or less adhered to by all these recommendations of the crisis headquarters. So I think that just in synergy all three of these parts we've made one really good result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200261	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200262	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is here before us as we have heard a united debate on two laws concerning the additions of the Law on Foreigners and the addition of the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. We know that these two laws, in particular the Foreigners Act regulates precisely matter related to the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia, their visas, equal status regarding education and study of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, research, normal and approval of the EU blue, blue cards of highly qualified foreigners who are insufficient to work and research in the Republic of Croatia and how their status is regulated on entry, but also during normal and residence in the Republic of Croatia and their work and everything else. The State Secretary himself has mentioned several things to us in the introduction and it is good to deal with these figures regarding third-country nationals to whom this law will apply, they are currently in the Republic of Croatia which have some approved form of residence 66582, while as regards citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area, they are currently 12447 in the Republic of Croatia, normally each of them has a different type of residence in the Republic of Croatia, why they were granted it, for business, education, family integration, etc. Normally, it is necessary to support these amendments to both the laws and to reduce the administrative problems that these people are currently facing and normally to reduce this social contact and to reduce all procedures that would lead to the threat of any Croatian civil servants, any foreign citizens who are in the Republic of Croatia and should be extended either to stay or to a residence card or any other form of administration they need to do 30 days after the pass of the pandemic itself. In the very introduction of the replica, I referred to several segments that are important to the Republic of Croatia when we mention foreigners and citizens and third countries, but also to the European Economic Area, I think we should put an emphasis there and probably a lot of things will be clearer after tomorrow's session of the government that I believe, what we see and now, the indications that it will be because of these precisely and the good results that the government is doing to suppress the pandemic, I think there will be a mitigation of certain measures. A great emphasis, since this is the end of 4 months, we have to put, the biggest inquiry of tourist and agency and tourist workers down with everyone, along with everyone who has problems, not to mention hospitality, but I think this is the first wave of nautical tourism that is just starting to be regular and that the normal year that would start at this time has opened our marinas and hotels, driven yachts and boats and boats. I think that the foreigners who own a certain real estate or vessel in the Republic of Croatia must make certain measures for them because it is definitely the first wave where Croatian tourism could be exploited and I think those people are willing to have a particular movement or real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, so I believe they also have a tradition of coming to the Republic, and we are also sending a signal and security and stability, and I think that the ministry should find a way to speed up the arrival of these guests on our coast. The second segment that we will soon have to touch is precisely the seasonal workers who, every season, come from other countries to the Republic of Croatia to work. Normally, this law regulates and quotas that the foreigners meet annually to work in the Republic of Croatia and what our needs are. I believe that in the next month we'll have to touch that subject too. And one commendation to both the ministry and the government when we touch very few foreigners, but also foreign policies, is on this segment of return and our citizens from other countries. I hope that we also have a principle of mutuality between our partner countries, and here we also have to highlight maritimeity, which is very important for our Croatian economy and I believe that we need the same help from our sailors when we go to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200263	Thank you. Next individual debates by respected representative Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200264	Honored Vice President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, this is a better term. So, Secretary of State, it's time that I'm actually stressing the same things I just said in a club debate. We're talking about laws that are, so I'm going to say, absolutely not the priority of this assembly at times if this is a serious crisis. And that's what makes me sad and I'm going to do it again, and that's if the freedoms of citizens are limited without the right to appeal, if there's a situation happening to suspend the Law of residence and residence, I don't know whose decision, if the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is being violated, it should be the laws that should be here on the agenda. If the police are prevented from implementing the Criminal Procedure Act, it should be changed, it is a situation where it will be illegal evidence and will be unable to do anything about it. For that reason, I ask you, instead of these laws that are definitely throwing dust into your eyes that we do something in the assembly as we participate, decide, return priorities and those important things to the agenda. Also, I want to say that the issue of protection of the citizen himself, the right to health care, and I'm not telling you this for no reason about the second degree of appeal or the like, is that to the one who has been denied it, the one who has denied someone the right to freedom and custody is personally responsible, beware that I speak in person, in the Constitution it writes that. He has no right to be taken out on a higher order, which means the headquarters has ordered, no, he's personally responsible if he acts that way. You, when you disable someone's constitutional right, the fundamental human right that is written here, which is that a solution must be issued, that a man may complain, that he may turn to the court, put it before us, if you need to change or if you need to limit some things. There comes a time in which we can expect new problems, a fire season, a preparation of who knows if they're going or not going. And it's not all about headquarters, nor is it all about numbers that will be said on the press. We can expect a much worse problem this summer, and if we say so, we welcome it unpreparedly. For this reason I invite you as a ministry to go into the activities that we really need, those legal solutions fast and efficient that should be here before us. Also, I have to say that on the matter of residence and residence, I will repeat once again, suspend the law, prevent electronics from being done electronically, do it in a way that, I don't know who made the decision, stop as a practice for reasons why someone might want to use the possibility of changing their residence or residence to go to their cottage. Look, we can't handle this. If it's written in the law, that's how it's supposed to apply. You can't deny it right. I'll just mention something about what we care about foreigners and people with a permanent stay, okay, but I'm curious if they'll be able to get into this situation right now from possibly their countries this season here if they had that paper. That's something that's very interesting. Will the one who has been issued and has been extended, not now in Croatia be able to come to Croatia regardless of what we have a restraining order? Will it go 12 days, 14 days into self-insulation? I'm not sure it's meant to be a solution at all, but well, we'll see. In my opinion, the next thing I know, I'm interested, and it's not a problem with these two laws, but I'm interested in how you're going to enable police officers and everyone else to work on the basis of the law so they don't get personally responsible tomorrow for certain activities they're having and we're letting go. My message is, it's not a question of sticking to the law, but it's a law-abiding first example of having to show the MUP, the Ministry of the Interior, its members, police officers. When we give it up, we no longer have the right to the state. Then we no longer have a situation if someone had a good intention of not training strictness and acting that way. That's the point of the story. First as an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200265	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ostojić, so you have been talking here about the limitations of certain rights that have been taking place in parallel since this epidemic was declared and we in the SDP have been taking the lead all along and we believe that all restrictions should essentially bring this high home or Croatian Parliament 2/3 of the majority. However, we here have you yourself said, a series of laws that essentially fix the current, so far so I can say the failures in this government's procedures and essentially retroactively correct some things. What is in this law that practically only extends the period of extension of stay to foreigners is essentially not there, there are no real changes and decisions that should be, as they should be. And you know what I'm curious about, which I'd like to comment on maybe, two days ago, headquarters said they were a political body and they were making political decisions, and 10 days ago when we asked to make political decisions, they said they were a professional body. Now who's crazy here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200267	Dear Representative Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200268	In fact, we don't even know who's at headquarters because it's so hard to issue a solution or make a decision at the government that leading people of that headquarters are either falsely representing themselves or someone has no intention of actually keeping them there. Your question is first of all, I need to be encouraged by those who would like to deny the right to a solution. At this moment in Croatia there are between 15 and 20 thousand people in self-insulation or in limited areas of freedom of movement. Therefore, if someone did so and ordered someone to be, if the police knock on his door for it, a decision on self - isolation or a decision on quarantine must be issued regardless of what law it was. The minister last confirmed that it was crowded so they couldn't issue it. Mr. Andrija, not this virtual one, but Andrija Mikulić, the chief inspector who seals restaurants, that and his inspectors should be the ones who betray that solution. If the constitutional right to appeal is denied, it is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200269	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200270	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Ostojic, you are right that the legislative body has been put on the sidelines of many decisions that have been made, so counterpart Djujic rightly said that, but this is what the prime minister said the other day that politics is making decisions that the headquarters only gives legitimacy to as an expert body. So you rightly ask the question, what with all the people who can come to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of these legal changes to work and at the same time our citizens who have gone to other countries can't come back, because they too have to be quarantined for 14 days and that means they can't go back within reasonable time to work in those foreign countries. And these are the things we need to get an answer to today. Not only can the headquarters and the government act to react afterwards to events but it must plan something in advance, although I agree that the situation is unpredictable, but this is about families, it's about human destiny, and that is why we should bring quality solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200271	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200272	Dear colleague Sagar, how soon it will be and that we will get answers today, unfortunately, I'm sure we won't. In fact, it's about the question that we were supposed to wear a mask, 20. 4. Finally from Mr. Capak finds out that the mask is necessary. April 20th. So, at least a month after we asked a question or shouldn't, that's the answer we got. Everything else you said yourself, I'm just saying that the political body is the Parliament, the political body is the government, and the headquarters is an operational body that should implement the decisions of those laws that we have made here in the Parliament, both of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200273	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I join these assessments that my colleague Ostojić has given that we should discuss here the very important things that are on our agenda and solve the problems of citizens who have accumulated in the past month since the crisis and something more than create the impression that something is here in the Assembly, and the whole series of important topics is on the agenda and at the door. One of these topics is safe and the Earthquake Act, meaning when we talk about the police, about security in the city of Zagreb, today coming to the Croatian Parliament I was walking past a building where the noise was falling off, and unfortunately, Zagreb still acts as if it was not 30 days ago, but 30 minutes ago and I insist on this debate, I also filed a request from the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, it is 10, 15 days in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately chairing it not on the agenda and I am forced to warn on this at these sessions because Croatian citizens especially Zagreb and Zagreb citizens deserve to stand behind them and not to be, as the HDZ is now, protecting the Bandic mayor, covering his dissatisfaction and the whole chaos that took place in the city of Zagreb, and I hope that people will need to know that it, I am not in the interest to speak out here, that it is not in the interest to tell me that it is not to help but to help the President of the City of Zagreb, because it is expensive to the city, the people who are expensive and the city of Zagreb. And here I appeal once again to the Croatian Parliament's leadership to launch and to do something that will help Croatian citizens, so we have enough issues to solve in this assembly. On the other hand, I am using the opportunity here and I will warn the Government's representative of a confusion that they have caused with decisions that have prevented our citizens from going from the municipality to the municipality where simply for the past month people simply could not function nor control their property nor in any way have any normal life because many municipalities do not have the most basic infrastructure and there is a situation in the light of day where our territorial structure is totally unadjusted to the needs of the citizens or to the number of inhabitants we have. So, I think this is an opportunity to finally revise it and go into a more logical territorial structure and to try to return instead of 500 municipalities to 100 and some municipalities, to wonder at all what counties are serving, in what way they operate and to see that the biggest crisis we have actually had during this health pandemic in the entire Republic of Croatia is a situation which unfortunately is responsible for the County of Split-Dalmatia and Director of the House for Elderly and Powerless in Split, Mr. Škaričić, former HDZ representative and mayor of Omis, who is only there to be located somewhere in a function and shows itself essentially the county serves exclusively for the capture of party likes and it is not good and unfortunately we have a crisis situation there, people died and instead of being responsible to say already who is responsible for what happened in the Split House for the elderly and powerless, we are talking about foreigners here. This is Croatian citizens, believe me, not interested, but the responsibility of Škaricic, Mayor Boban and Prime Minister Plenkovic, for this reason, is of interest to Croatian citizens because there must be a responsibility for me already 10 people who unfortunately died in that home for the elderly and the powerless, or who were the protégés of that home for the elderly and the powerless. And on that side, let's see how to solve problems in the Republic of Croatia, not use this to promote some laws that are not important at all, or to listen to the praises here of the HOK and the HGK that we have heard from Mr. Uncle. Well, I don't think there are 1% of Croatian citizens here who support HOK and HGK as the HDZ does. Let's do a survey of people and see what people's reaction to these institutions is, or do they think they've done the right thing during this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200275	Thank you very much. At your presentations which did not have much to do with the foreign law, however, we do have some replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when we talk about the Foreigners Act today, colleague Maras, as you yourself have said, we have today a technical law that essentially extends the deadline for requests for foreigners to stay in Croatia, and in fact we have a whole series of problems today that are current, which are worse in Croatia. So, you were talking about an earthquake, the earthquake was supposed to be resolved right before two and three weeks ago, as this law was supposed to be technically solved. Maybe it was activated. 17th and that the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the restriction of certain constitutional rights, but then, in that decision, it said, due to exceptional circumstances, all documents and all the permits that cease to apply are extended to 30 days until the end of the pandemic and could be resolved within 1 day. And not like this, we practically every two days have some laws to fictitiously look like we're involved in something and we're making some decisions, and they're basically technical laws. Until those burning problems and burning questions are essentially solved and don't come to this high house. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200277	Thank you. Now we have an answer. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200278	Thank you very much. I invite all MPs at HS when arriving at the meeting in HS to walk through the city of Zagreb and let them answer me afterwards if the earthquake in Zagreb was 30 days or 30 minutes ago. Because unfortunately, the city of Zagreb at this point looks like the earthquake was 30 minutes ago, and not 30 days ago and what is problematic, the problem is that with the non-transparent and incompetent administration no one from the state level is involved in the solution to the problem of our citizens who are today in Zagreb huge. Thousands and thousands of families have no gas connection today, 30 days after the earthquake. Non-transparency in the distribution of humanitarian aid means it's amazing that the mayor used 16.17 million kunas that have gathered humanitarian funds to non-transparently buy material from his related friends. So these are all the things we have to talk about here, unfortunately State not including but HDZ still [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Bandic's shoe. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200279	Next line, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200280	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. So national headquarters, county headquarters, municipal and city headquarters. There's no communication, I don't know why. There's been an opportunity for all of these today, all these months actually to establish communication, it's not. It has a very serious impact on citizens' health. All hospital exams have been interrupted, in health care homes. Primary health care has stopped. The city councils can't do anything about it. I don't know if he can county, and that's the question. If you ask doctors on the ground, starting with primary, hospital doctors, many will tell you that decisions have been made that were not good for the health of citizens. However, these doctors are afraid to go public because the minister has called anyone who opposes the Staff's decisions at the time, that it is the 5th column. These are very serious things, we're going to have large waiting lists, we're going to have major illnesses, an increase in cancers, all other dangerous diseases, and that's going to happen soon. The minister announced that now everything will be done to reduce the waiting lists, I'm afraid it won't be so simple to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200281	Thank you. Here's my colleague Maras, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200282	I think it's a particular problem that no one is currently dealing with in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately a lot of cancer patients are currently not getting treatment and being treated the way they should be treated because of the root of the crisis. We get people every day and they warn us not only not to be treated, but a lot of people are careful, especially sick people, not going to health institutions, and I suppose unfortunately we'll have big problems in the health system after the crisis, especially with people who are seriously sick. We should deal with this, we should take care of it now, more, believe me, much more than we should about whether someone is going to take a look at your cottage between one and the other municipalities. Unfortunately, Mr. Bozinovic on TV, instead of talking about how we're going to do our best... and all possible resources directed towards cancer patients to help them, he's still talking about whether anyone went to see their cottage [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or not. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200283	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Striker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200284	Comrade Maras, you have also touched the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia in your debate. Namely, it is desirable that one part of the municipalities, perhaps even the cities, should be abolished. Now, we often discuss demographic issues here in Parliament. Half of European countries, EU member states have problems with demographics, including us. The worst picture is right in those small communities and small municipalities. And now, do you think by connecting or eliminating these smaller municipalities and cities, the demographic image will improve? Will people in those small communities live better? Will big cities take better care of these small environments? Will those environments have kindergartens and whatever young families are interested in and what they need? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200285	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200286	Well, I have to admit that I'm really amazed by your replica and response because at this very moment again, this situation has shown a complete illogicality of the structure of our local administration and self-government. It's completely illogical. People, when the Staff pointed out the bans on crossing the municipality to the municipality, they couldn't get some to go to the post office, they couldn't go to the bank. They couldn't carry out their most basic needs of life, and now you're telling me it's in their best interests. So what's that in their interest? If someone in a municipality couldn't do what he needed to live, how can you even say that this community is sufficient and the need for that same citizen who lives there? Well, that's what people say. That's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying what people are saying, read the comments of people now, read the articles in the media. If now's not the time to see it, I don't know. when it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Absolutely. I think it would be a better quality of life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and these citizens in these municipalities to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Make a different design. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200287	We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Sasa Djujic's. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to look back at this law, so this is a technical law that basically extends the deadlines for submitting new applications for staying strangers. And here I really don't understand why we didn't discuss this law when we discussed that whole package of IDs, driver's licenses and all those documents that are essentially the same essence. Certain deadlines have been extended there, and a certain deadline is being extended here. So, I think this law at the debate in this high house comes with some month late because you could see this problem in the MUP when you saw IDs, driver's licenses, armed sheets and everything else, and when we were passing that package of laws means about 3-4 weeks ago, we could have brought this package too. So I really don't understand what the purpose of today's debate is except for this topic, so page, when we talk about foreigners today, if we stick to it strictly and only this law can we talk about 30 days of that extension. I say I see in this, in this topic one topic that will be imposed very quickly. So what's the main function of this law? And when we brought it in last year, ha stay of the residents, regulation of the residence of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, and one large part of this is about working force, which is, for example, deficitary in our country, mostly in the building and in terms of tourism. Now that we're looking at the economy, and we're looking at that tourism is, like, the most hit by the Coronal Virus epidemic, and basically this season is going to be what it's going to be like, then the question is, what's the interest in foreigners and foreign labour in the Republic of Croatia at all? So, over the past years, we've had tremendous pressure from the businessmen here by the wave of those from tourism to the government and the ministry to increase quotas, to allow more foreign nationals to stay in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that now in the coming period, not that there will be no need for it, but that the responsible government may, in preserving jobs in the Republic of Croatia, also be able to reduce those quotas because it's insane to have quotas as we did last year and to allow the stay of foreigners who will be a cheaper workforce than ours in Croatia, and we might have, perhaps, a larger part of the unemployed people in tourism that we already have, who were seasons and who would, for example, in normal conditions already for Easter started working, but given this situation they are not hired at all by their hotel companies, cafes and restaurants. So that's a subject that we should talk about, not whether we can have 30 days longer of time to file for approval, etc. The other thing is, that's why I wanted to draw attention to this problem when we talk about strangers. Another thing I join my colleagues in terms of cities and municipalities and territorial structure. Now I'm going to give you another example of why I think this kind of structure, or this kind of operating system in the Republic of Croatia, is pointless. So, we now have some kind of National Civil Protection Headquarters that prescribes certain measures and certain restrictions, we heard here two days ago that it is still a political body that makes political decisions along the lines of some kind of profession. So until five days ago it was some kind of professional body, and then we have county headquarters, so we have city and municipal headquarters. And then we have examples in the Republic of Croatia that city and municipal headquarters prescribe measures that are more rigorous than national headquarters. I'll say on the example of my county. Let's say the island of Losinj and the island of Rab. They practically banned the arrival of anyone who doesn't live on an island, anyone off the island, in a way that they said, anyone who doesn't have a place on our island and comes out must be 15 days in isolation. And I can very easily control it, let's say, the Rape navigation that's lying on the city's firm won't sell a ticket to anyone who doesn't have confirmation that he's been self-insulated on the island of Rab for 15 days. And at national level it's not, so from one municipality to another you can move normally along with an adequate pass. Now, I don't know if it's the right decision on the town of Rab or on the island of Losinj, but the fact is that they're doing it, and the national headquarters didn't write it down. We have an example in Losinj, so construction works are allowed by the decisions of the national headquarters, the builders can work, the man brought workers from Đakov to Lošinj, but because of local headquarters decisions they could not go out and work at all, or return home for 15 days. Now, what we need is a national headquarters, which will give us county services, which will give us locals if they run each one of their policies and that policy isn't even. Now that's what I'm asking you? So, since the MUP is the bearer of that, I'm running out of time so I don't get to discuss this anymore, but that's my question. What's the national headquarters gonna do, county And 580 locals if they don't, if they don't all stick to the same policy? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's the question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200289	We have two replicas, two replicas. We have a replica, colleague Maras, and nothing has been withdrawn, colleague Ostojić and colleague Bačić. My colleague Ostojić is the first, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200290	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have rightly noticed this situation that completely changes the essence of that law that was first here on the 19.3 agenda that we agreed on. The national headquarters, at that time, demanded a unique action, the reason for this law was to be a unique act. And now it turns out that the local headquarters who did this before are actually still running their policies the way they do. It's something that actually tells us about how true the national headquarters has been made in the way that it's been asked of us to all be together for that kind of action. I think that this variant just shows how missed the decisions are I don't know if it's a political or professional body, and I think it should be operational.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200291	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200292	So fellow Ostojic, as time goes by, and show this, shows the failures of these professional political, political and professional bodies, to miss the decisions they make. So I'm going to say it again for example. So, headquarters said moving inside the county without a pass. We have some counties that have made some regions within themselves again. I don't know if it's necessary or not, but I don't think that's exactly the usual situation if we have a pandemic situation that we're fighting like a state, that the state is saying one thing, that local headquarters are doing something else. Well, there was a problem when cities and municipalities wanted to join in on some logical principle, so then, they made decisions, and then the national headquarters said, "No, the city and municipal councils have to confirm it, so that the early that problem was then made a decision could all within the county. Now, I support the decision of city councils and municipal councils but we have one illogicality here too. Locally they must make decisions by city and municipal councils and at national level, for example, the Croatian Parliament does not have to make any decisions at all, but all can be made by the National Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200293	Thank you, thank you, fellow Djujic. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Ante Muffin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200294	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I disagree, you see that we talked a lot, at least we talked about the Foreign Law. When you mention cities and counties and municipalities, now we're going back to what we've been fighting so hard for decentralisation, we're going back to the centralised model again. It is not illogical for a local headquarters to implement its own policy, e.g. in Split-Dalmatia County we still have a ban on the island's path but there is everything in agreement with the National Staff. So I don't know why you're fighting to centralize everything again in one place, and another thesis why we're discussing these technical laws. What are we supposed to discuss here? We're discussing reports like this, laws like this, and if we stick to those thesis of you and certain colleagues, that means that Parliament doesn't have to work, we're going to leave it to the president, the Prime Minister, the Joint Chief, and we don't need to be around anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200295	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200296	Comrade Bacic, I'll start at the end. The Croatian Parliament should discuss the laws directed by the government of the Republic of Croatia in this House, it does not. So what he's doing, he's doing minimal or late. So until three weeks ago, we didn't have any government laws for a month. None, so we're discussing reports because there's nothing to discuss because the government doesn't send proposals into the procedure, that's the problem. And when we talk about decentralisation, decentralisation, why we don't have a whole policy but decisions of some sort of fictitious who's going to move, di won't, it's like decentralisation, and fiscal, then we're centralised. So the government gives economic measures to entrepreneurs at the expense of cities and municipalities, so it takes their income tax and they remain without their resources. Is that decentralisation on HDZ? So give them the money and then we'll talk about decentralisation. And that's where we're talking about the government has helped the economy, but 30% of these help comes from cities and municipalities, so 30% of the funds to entrepreneurs in the city of Rijeka was given by Vojko Obersnel, And not Andrej Plenkovic, [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] It's decentralisation. [[Intruder Hajdas Doncic: Thank you, fellow Djujic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200297	Thank you. We now have two final discussions on behalf of the club of MPs, the first colleague of Ostojić, the SDP representative club final, followed by counterpart Miro Bulj, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, final. Here you go, colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200298	I would like to thank the Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we've got two laws very similar again and they have the same thing and it's an extension of the duration. Afterwards we will return for this reason again stone age, there will be no progress, and that is to go into electronic advancement even though here we have shown that every real Croat who holds on to himself has a pass and issued 950,000 in the Republic of Croatia for free movement. Therefore, the moment we come to the situation that the MUP is giving up to be an example of how it behaves by law, and I am saying that in the case of residence and residence or variants where the possibilities are suspended that what you were able to do before electronic gain are no longer possible, it is an independent decision and I claim that it is counter-constitutional. Art. 16 and 17. The Republic of Croatia says that freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect other people's freedoms and rights, public and moral health. Right, but it's not the headquarters that can replace the Parliament. It is not the headquarters of a national place where such decisions or laws or laws can be invented, which could restrict one’s right to free movement under the law. For this reason, insisting on a solution, that people can complain is something that I think is quite normal, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and will show whether I was right about limiting freedom without a solution and constitutional right to appeal. At that time, Mr. Andrija Mikulić's behaviour would not have happened either, it would not have actually happened that the body that is here now may be the best name of a professional political body, meaning a professional political body to make a decision to freeze the health system of the Republic of Croatia and that other diseases are going to wait. I can't justify it, the life-threatening citizens are expecting it at this point and the SDP has, as usual, made constructive proposals in which to get out of this situation and the same way as for the economic measures that would be necessary to normalise the situation as much as possible. I'll repeat again, unity yes, but not in silence over missed moves. Especially not about illegal measures. You remember what we were saying about passes, we were talking about too many zones, we were talking about absurdities that happen that a man has to go to another town to look for a pass, let's say, Vis and Komiza, to get to a pointy apartment in Komiza. The islands themselves are isolated. The independent decisions taken at the moment as regards municipalities and cities were the reason why we changed the Civil Protection Staff Act at national level, making an amendment to that law precisely in order not to happen that we do not have a uniform treatment or that one place is centrally managed by this crisis. So today we talk about that there were no illogical moves, that there were no situations where there were completely guilty of me and absurd situations that eventually we got a variant that some were illegally using mountain roads to get to a store or something like that, all this together tells us that people in the professional political headquarters actually played a game. You can't use more than the law says. The Croatian Parliament at this time until war is not a situation in which we cannot work, while we have an epidemic ok, but there is no one right to suspend the most legislative body to meet, to work and function as everyone else does. I think it's very important that we not suspend our own acts in this assembly and try to adapt to this situation. I can understand that, time has already gone long enough for us to get back to normal at least work in this legislative, highest legislative body, so we may have fewer failures because I will repeat it once more, people are not numbers, people are both our citizens and their restriction of freedom must have a foothold both in law and those who apply the law can do so only on the basis of legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200299	Thank you, too. We now have a colleague, Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Finally, and a colleague, Bačić, has also signed up, so later, as he can, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200300	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government and Croatian citizens. We see that we are discussing a law that could have been passed before about foreigners, which could have been passed through the decisions of the headquarters, and many are making the headquarters not legally, but it is generally accepted that this assembly simply has to serve the majority and raise its hands. But I'd say here that I'm expecting answers, I see that the secretary of state hasn't called, what about the migrants? Speaking of foreigners, why doesn't anyone mention migrants and whether migrants are entering the Republic of Croatia illegally and have you tested them? That's what citizens are interested in, mostly in the border area. That's not a word. That's the key question. We've exhausted everything around strangers. God forbid we care so much about the people who have moved, Croatian citizens to other countries because of the bad policies in agriculture, because of the bad fisheries policies, because of the bad policies in the economy, because of the bad policies of the Executive Law, because of everything that God Petrov will now talk about behind this on the 9 proposals of the legal ones that we have made. To talk about banks, he'll give us a moratorium on loans. When are we gonna talk about this? And I ask you secretaries, at least answer here to the citizens, what about the migrants, do the migrants enter the Republic of Croatia, and of what they have entered, and they are entering, how many have you tested from the Coronavirus since you took certain freedoms from Croatian citizens, what about the migrants and what about our evicted Croats in other countries, what is being taken from the government of the Republic of Croatia? I'd say here in the end it was mentioned here while we're talking about essential laws, we'll talk back on MOST's proposals. I would mention here that even in this serious situation even today to continue sharing in society when everyone is calling for community in Jasenovac at a memorial literally divides the Croatian people. I must once again condemn the statement of the president of the Republic of Croatia which is on the trail of what Andrej Plenkovic did and the cartoonist coalition together with HNS and Pupovac, where he said that the Hos board was thrown, removed and thrown. I mean, I'm asking him to apologize to all those Hos, mostly the dead families and mothers of my comrades who were from Vukovar, from my Ivica Poljak Sokol to the recently found Redkap to Dubrovnik, the Hos's defended in the most difficult battlefields of the Croatian state in the Homeland War. And use this opportunity now when the Council of Europe invites us to condemn all totalitarian regimes, communist, Nazi and fascist, to react in this way. This is how she should react, in fact, is now the successor of the politics of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, Andreja Plenkovic to Croatian defenders and in this case Zoran Milanovic, who is a disgraceful statement that the triba is stripping and throwing plates from the Croatian Defence Forces, while at the same time Chetnic monuments are still there, such as Sljevcanin, who slaughtered and burned over Vukovar and called for the rebellion of the distinguished representative of the government. When are you going to take down the Chetnik monuments and throw them away? From the butcher and the Chetnik. At this time, they are not good divisions, they are not good divisions, but that the prime minister and president give such statements to victims when all victims are to be honored, I expected that there would be a minimum end to the statement by Nenad Stazic, who said it was '45. It is not that the winner did not finish his job, that he was not killed enough and slaughtered enough Croats. Now that we have this crisis, when we have a scattered economy, when agriculture is destroyed, when the IGP has not been declared, we have not preserved our sea, when we do not have the strength. There's no government of power, there's no bank, there's no moratorium on loans and interest. At the same time, such shameful statements to those who created the foundations of the Croatian state are members of the police, HV and Hos.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200301	Thank you. Thank you. Here's a little intervention, and after that, my colleague Bačić, finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200302	Thank you, Vice President. I see there's a little bit of passion, we're slowly going back to Ustashas and partisans, which means the system is normalized in the Republic, that's good. We've been wandering around here a lot in the debates, so here's the final, just a little bit to get back on the subject, to get back to these two laws on a united debate. Foreign law and the Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. We have mentioned and we have opened a series of topics that I believe here that the secretary of state may also look back at it in its final address and on the very quotas related to the employment of foreigners, we must stress that this is not just some technicality, that this is not just a technical law, technical nature, however, it is 70 000 people, regardless of what these foreigners are, they are in the Republic, they are probably working here or schooling, and here we are looking at individual universities, and we have a lot of students who stayed in the Republic, in some way stuck here at the time of the pandemic, but I think they are not sick and that our universities and colleges and colleges are doing a lot of work to make everyone feel comfortable and to carry out their duties regardless of what they are not in their home countries. The issue of mutuality has also opened up, I hope, we are definitely a state that has strong sensitivity and for the sake of our diaspora probably also because of our history towards foreigners, we also know our relationship and all the rights that here are minorities starting here in the Croatian Parliament and beyond our laws and our constitutional laws, so that I believe and hope we will also see through this diplomatic network of individual ministries, that we will work precisely on this reciprocity and that our citizens who are currently in certain countries around the world will have equal or similar and hopefully even better treatment than what foreigners have in the Republic. As far as the seasonal workers themselves are concerned, here we have opened the topic and the nautics and the citizens, foreign citizens who own property, which are located in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe tomorrow and that we will watch the session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because here are the many issues that have opened here, we will receive tomorrow a response to both hospitality and agriculture and all the activities they suffer for this pandemic so that I believe that it is the nautics, tourism and accommodation itself, and precisely these foreign citizens who have real estate and mobility in the Republic, that it will be this first wave where we will feel and save how much tourist season that is ahead of us can be saved. We have to stress it, and we have to point out well, through this law, there may be no direct intention through but it is important to highlight, here and all the measures taken by the MUP, but also foreign affairs and general government, we all follow through the media that the government is referring to our citizens who are here mentioned through a series of debates, our citizens who are currently stuck or doing business or for any of their activities abroad, I know personally how much it is working with our neighbouring and friendly and EU countries right now, to buy our citizens and bring them to the Republic of Croatia, and I just have to point out for the end one important segment, and these are our sailors. We know just how much seamen contribute to tourism and GDP but also employment and tax taxes and everything related to Croatia, especially in Dalmatia, these people are in Croatia today, slowly that shipping is returning, they are moving on their ships, and they need to make it as easy as possible for them to make it easier for the MUP together with the Civil Protection Staff to get out of the country, so that they can easily board their ships and easily return to all normal, measures if they need isolation and any others, but that they continue to do their jobs because we normally know that it is the only type and method of income for the seamen. All in all, I don't think this is just technical nature and this shows that the Croatian Parliament works regularly and that the Croatian state does Thank you. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200303	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the final draft law supplementing the Foreign Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 926 and Final draft law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 927, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200304	Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Foreign Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 996. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Foreign Law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 117 MPs voted, 115 for and 2 against, and it is unanimous, and most votes have passed the Law on the Completion of the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200305	We will now move to a united debate on the following two points, these are: Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Foreign Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 926 Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 927 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the MUP, Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. You are presented with proposals to supplement the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. The current Foreigning Act has been in force since 1 January 2012, and it regulates the area of entry into the Republic of Croatia, residence in the Republic of Croatia and the work of foreign nationals of third countries and is in line with a total of 23 directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European acquis and applies exclusively to third-country nationals, not to EU citizens. Currently in the Republic of Croatia there are 66,582 third-country nationals of which 10,282 citizens are granted permanent stay, and 56,300 temporary stay, mostly for the purpose of working 46,681, and then for the purpose of joining the family of 8.263 and other purposes such as study, scientific research and other fewer foreign nationals. All of them, therefore, shall be issued to third-country nationals who have been granted either a temporary stay and residence permits, and in part of these documents shall cease or cease to be valid during the declaration of an outbreak of COVID-19 disease. This bill would allow third-country nationals to use issued residence permits during the duration of the epidemic to continue uninterrupted stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, the proposed additions are prescribed that the actions in the administrative procedure to be taken by third-country nationals within the time limits prescribed by the Foreign Law may be taken no later than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. These are, for example, administrative actions relating to the submission of a request to extend the authorisation of a temporary stay, to apply for an authorisation for stay and work, to apply for a biometric residence permit to replace the residence permit due to the expiry of the period of validity or modification of the data or the damage to the residence permit itself, and then to report or modify the application of the residence and the address of the residence. Similarly, citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families are in the same situation. As you know, last year this matter was isolated from the Foreign Law and from the 18th. Seven. In 2019, the law governing the stay and work of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area in the Republic of Croatia is in force. At present, 12 477 citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families are staying in Croatia. Of that number, 6 771 persons have an approved permanent stay and 5 706 have a registered temporary stay, most often for family connection or use of real estate. And these categories of persons are therefore issued certificates of application of temporary stay and residence card, and part of these documents has ceased or will cease to be valid during the duration of the epidemic. Therefore, the proposal to supplement this law proposes the use of already issued certificates of application of temporary residence, issued residence cards, as well as the taking of certain actions for which the deadlines are set and prescribed. Therefore, citizens of the European Economic Area will also be obliged to take action within the time limits laid down in the applicable law or for a maximum period of 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic, certain actions and procedures for the extension of their documents. Therefore, both third-country nationals and citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, due to the limitations of social contact and thereby to carry out certain tasks in which their documents are issued or extended, are therefore proposed to supplement these two laws which will allow all those persons to extend their documents within 30 days of the end of the epidemic. The implementation of the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area will not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200307	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200308	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is good that we are at European level and I think we have sent the message to the world, even in this pandemic that we are a safe and stable country and destination. We know that the nautical season begins and the tourism minister himself mentioned that this first wave may be a tourist to save you from being saved that in the season it is precisely in those foreigners who have vessels or some property owned in the Republic of Croatia. We know that their interest in coming even in quarantine in the Republic of Croatia has been demonstrated, does the ministry think about allowing those foreign citizens who own or own a vessel or real estate in the Republic of Croatia to come to the Republic of Croatia and what is the procedure for them to come at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200309	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200310	Dear Mr. Representative, the arrival of these persons in their homes or cottages is permitted, but at this time of these measures of limited social movements, they will have to be in isolation for 15 days, so they will not be able to move freely. We believe that through the downfall of the number of patients these measures in some close time will and will be facilitated, but at this point we can only speak about what the situation is, so we still need an isolation of 15 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200311	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200312	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, one of the measures that has caused the biggest dissatisfaction of our citizens is the restriction of movement particularly illogical within our counties where there are municipalities that do not have the most basic resources such as mail or bank, so people could not do the most basic jobs to other municipalities, so here we have shown that we are not quite realistically divided into the Republic of Croatia and that this should be changed on the other hand that this decision could have been at the level of the county, I think it was a much more correct path and I hope that you will soon start in this direction, or that you will end this restriction of movement to the most basic municipal units. But what I'm interested in, so I'm interested in these 60,000 foreigners, how they move to the Republic of Croatia while our citizens can be within their municipalities, I'm curious about how these 60,000 foreigners are moving right now in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200313	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200314	Foreigners who have issued a permit to stay in the Republic of Croatia in most of their activities are the same as Croatian citizens. So, if it moves outside the place of its registered residence, it has to get a pass but for it has to have a legitimate reason, means one of these foreigners, part of them does, so the biggest part as they see it does, and if they need it for work, means a pass that if he works in a different place of residence or now in a different county they will end up there... Like all other Croatian citizens, if they have a valid reason, let's say they have to follow a family member to a doctor, so I have exactly the same rules as a Croatian citizen as the movement in this situation. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200315	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200316	Thank you very much. With this law, you want to prevent social contacts and exits, i.e. You extend your permits to foreigners who have residence or residence in this area of the Republic of Croatia. However, the fact is that when we talk about foreign persons in the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia is liberalising the market and that we have a large increase in foreign workers, mainly in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which is over 100,000. For comparison two years ago. We had 15 000 workers, 10-11 000 from other countries, and mostly from Bosnia, Serbia, an increase from other countries. Do you have any information on how many people are exampled outside the EU, from other countries of Europe to the Republic of Croatia who are in a working relationship and who need to extend these permits? I'm interested in people who aren't, so from the EU countries at this point?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200317	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200318	Dear Representative, as I was saying earlier, there are currently 66582 citizens in the Republic of Croatia, so to speak. third countries, so outside the EU, and that's what you asked. Of these, 56300 have an approved temporary stay, and for the purpose of work 46681, so that number of persons works. Some of them, unfortunately as well as part of Croatian citizens, have lost their jobs in this situation, especially in some sectors. However, greater demand is emerging in other sectors. For example, in agriculture, so that a part of people who have worked in tourism so far have lost their jobs, both Croatian citizens and foreigners, are now asking for permits for, so now we're talking about foreigners, they're asking for permits to work in agriculture, and if employers have their own needs, and they have such permits and they get them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200319	The following replicas, Honored Representative Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200320	Your Honor, Deputy Minister, please... Are these strangers here or are they with permission? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's what my colleague Bulj asked. And that means whether we actually have a different criterion for foreigners or for our citizens. You say that strangers will power their yachts and their cottages, and our citizens can't do that. In fact, my real question was, do you approve of residence and residence at this point in accordance with the Law on residence and residence?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200321	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200322	Dear Mr. Representative, the Law on residence and residence is a regulation that regulates that matter for Croatian citizens. The law on foreigners, or this Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area, for these other categories that we are talking about today and that we have in the procedure of amending, supplementing the law. Changes in residence and residence, except in certain justified cases, are also limited for Croatian citizens in view of the restrictions on movement. They are carried out if, for example, a foreigner has become a Croatian citizen and has not yet had a registered residence under the law, and in newborn children, in persons who have made a marriage and for this reason live together, and then in persons who have already had a residence, they have expired, and they have the right to be extended and in some other justified cases, but therefore there is no wide [[Intruder: Thank you]] the application of that law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200323	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200324	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am actually interested in a situation which may now be unrelated to this current situation although I assume that those persons who have a temporary residence, so foreigners or residence, can generally not move within the EU area or should. Namely, they should have a visa under the current law. However, instructions are that some border police may accompany their wives to travel within the EU. For example, Hungary allows it, Austria allows it, but Slovenia does not. If you and your husband or spouse are a foreign citizen, he's 5 years old. The allowed residence went somewhere, on the Slovenian border regardless of if you're just passing through it, asking for a visa. Now all I'm interested in is how it's settled in this situation at all now, whether they can at all, and in the future, if it's the instructions for the border police to do everything if they're accompanied by a wife who has an EU citizen, that she can move. However, here we have such practices as are permitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200325	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200326	Your Honor, I must say I am not familiar with the practice of all European states now. As a rule, third-country nationals when they are married to a Croatian national or a national or a citizen of the European Economic Area have freedom of movement. In this respect, this Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Area and the members of their families is also intended to facilitate the movement of their spouses of family members who are not citizens of the European Economic Area. But in this situation, when countries introduce measures, they introduce measures that are not exactly the same from, from country to country, we could not tell you whether someone can travel freely to Slovenia or, or Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200327	Thank you very much. And the esteemed representative, Sagar, also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200328	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, so I'll just mention the woman now. Many rural women have gone to work either in Austria, either in Italy or in other EU countries, they are now unable to return precisely because of this two-week quarantine provision. As I understanded by the minister at yesterday's press, he said that given the merger, the possibility of bringing the family together to make exceptions and maybe there's a proposal, it might be a good solution to allow, here are our citizens who should return to their families for a certain time, that instead of two weeks' quarantines, tests that don't have to be after two weeks, they might be, let the profession say, maybe after three or five days, and that procedure could actually be the basis for a future tourist season because if we expect tourism, then we have to introduce different models. What you're saying is that people will come to tourism and be quarantined for two weeks, it really doesn't make sense. Is this the direction being considered, and did I understand the minister well, that in the sense of family integration, there would be exceptions?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200329	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200330	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that question has nothing to do with this matter here, but the Republic of Croatia has to make that clear. It also allows for the repatriation of our citizens in the country. And in that sense certain transports are allowed together to make it easier for these people to enter their homeland, but because of the epidemiological situation, isolation is still needed. By giving in and hoping, by a small number of infected, those measures will be facilitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200331	Now we're going to ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200332	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, here are the citizens interested in all measures concerning the pandemic and applied to the Republic of Croatia, but would only say here that it would be good for Croatia, that Croatian citizens should not be discriminated in this case because the question, which I did not understand your answer, is whether a Croatian citizen, if he has a spouse from another country, can he also have the right within the EU to go to that country, as this law will allow these spouses, if one of them is a citizen of the Republic, i.e. if he is from the Republic of Croatia and his spouse is from another country. So I think we need to discuss this extension here, these measures, in a way that we need to ask specific questions. I'm wondering if, I mean, we don't have any information, and we know that illegal migrant crossings, do they control themselves, do you have that information? Was there by any chance a virus in illegal entry and whether there was any new information in a way that we know that there was pressure on the border, that there were migrants in the area of our border, mainly inside BiH, we know that before this crisis there was a single migrant wave and there was a lot of entry of illegal migrants. That would be very important of you as a representative of the government and one of the key people of the MUP. I have seen here and questions for foreigners who have their own property, real estate or movement within the Republic of Croatia, we see that the minister is calling for tourism, while at the same time he is absolutely towards the domestic people, our people who are engaged in catering, food, this, restaurants that have, which hold the measure that exactly strengthens the muscles of inspectorates and Andrija Mikulić, right on these people. So you're now referring to it, while the inspectorate is making sense of stronger muscles on people who want to preserve jobs in hospitality, that it's just that inspectorate, it's visible that absolute dictatorship and self-will are in certain measures, but they're unclear measures, so people have hosts and not just now in tourism, in the catererer, if we talk about tourism, have a huge problem, so that this story of some relaxation would be good, it would be desirable, it would be good for the secretary to say what significant measures these are, but at this point we have a huge pressure from the state inspector, i.e. His inspectorate, Mikulic's inspectorate. We have brought here and the laws of Lex Mikulić, 52 laws we have changed here for 3 months to anchor and entangle Andrija Mikulić and to do a show, mainly to people entrepreneurs, watching if they have a table ahead, how they will leave food, if they will not leave it that way. Thus, you are called in one tourist country in this way, relaxing measures, and this is how you treat domestic entrepreneurs, i.e. To domestic hosts, here and citizens will recognize it more than scandalous and embarrassing at the same time that McDonald's, foreign banks are granted the same work that, of course, sells uninhabited food than harmful, import food, mostly GMO food that we don't promote, so it's a huge problem and one huge discrimination against our citizens, so I would like the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be equal to other people living in this area, i.e. to foreigners in this area who have a place of residence and a place of residence. Don't just beat our people like it was before and in the case, and I'd like it to be talked about today and... talk or that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken over, we know that the lack of workers is, for example, a lack of workers. was on agricultural matters, for example. Here for the season is strawberries, people who should be reading strawberries, that before, the good part, here in the Vrhoric area was from Herzegovina who were reading, that was one huge problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things need to be resolved so that our entrepreneurs can exist on the market. Unfortunately, we see that the repression of the inspectorate, the State Inspector and Andrija, this dictatorship of Andrija Mikulić is unbearable and we see that both the caterers and the entrepreneurs have stood up because simply this behavior is because they are also unclear measures, in fact measures are not the same. In the end, I would just say that in Croatia at this point we expect, you as a representative of the government, much stronger measures. These all the laws that we are making here are important, I think, but when we talk about laws then we should bring them under the urgency that we should no longer be courting these banks because I read I see a statement from the adviser of Andrej Plenkovic, who says that banks must have profit, no one has the right to take their profits away from them, and we know that banks have extra profits in the Republic of Croatia, I wish that it was moratorium law on loans and interest for our citizens, and that the Croatian government, prime minister and president do not kneel before banks, but simply as many other states at this point to bring meaning to the moratorium, and we Assembly representatives have to talk about it, Prime Minister, citizens want to listen to this story, they do not want to solve these problems because they are simply key problems. Or, for example, it would be desirable already if the law of, if from this year on, it is possible that foreign legal and natural persons can buy agricultural land, and in Croatia we have 700,000 unprocessed agricultural land we see that even the counties of those who destroyed farmers such as my Split-Dalmatia County are now calling for agriculture, so let's say we don't have the irrigation of the Sinj field, we don't have the Lower Vrhor field, we don't have the problem of the Imot field, and now those who have destroyed those who are responsible for the water supply they are calling for irrigation and are allegedly giving out much more serious measures, and now we see the prominent representatives of the Government, dear citizens, in this crisis we see how the Croatian state is guided and what policies that there are not self-sufficient, so they need much more serious laws. I also gave the law in the procedure, in an emergency procedure, that under emergency division of state land within two years, in two years of 400,000 hectares of state property less than 10,000 hectares were divided. So 1%, 2%, and that's what that land is now. While our farmers, now that we're talking about breakers in the Republic of Croatia who have residence, who have work permits and their families, we've moved out the whole of Slavonia, moved out my Dalmatian Zagora, and now they're still looking for those who take pictures at headquarters, now they're looking like they're being clapped, and they've destroyed both agriculture and livestock and banks and telecommunications, they've put everything in foreign hands. At this point, we need to talk about these laws, then there will be 9 laws given by MOST, but I expect this example of respected agriculture secretaries, because this is a very important area, labour forces are needed in agriculture, in the Republic of Croatia, for example. in this case, strawberry picking. This way I invite everyone, let's buy your homework, buy Vrgorje strawberries, buy our grandmothers, buy what's left in the Republic of Croatia. And I call on us to process our land and call on us to stop, ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons. And I invite you, Prime Minister, to finally have the Minister of Agriculture traded and the Minister of Agriculture finally split the land unprocessed. 400,000 hectares owned by the Republic of Croatia or taken from us by foreigners Hungary put it in the constitution. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200333	A colleague named Bacic has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200334	Thank you, Vice President. Infringement of Rules of Procedure of Article 238, I am sorry that you did not warn your colleague Bulja who was constantly talking about this law and did not stick to the subject. It would even forgive him for opening up some bad topics especially about agriculture, and I am sorry what he said one lie, which is that the Split-Dalmatia County destroyed all farmers and I am sorry that he did not mention exactly the measures for farmers and businessmen who were presented in his Split-Dalmatia County and what he may not have commended. Exactly everything about what you mentioned and co-financing seasonal workers who will now bat strawberries and co-financing [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200335	Uh, it's true that my colleague Bulj is usually away from the subject, but this one, as far as these other things are concerned, I can't tell if anyone's telling the truth, whether anyone's telling a lie. It's rare for this guy to say anything and I'm not the one who can judge it, so it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure instead of the replica. Since there are no replicas in clubs, I know that some tend to abuse. From now on, I'm gonna make a warning about it. I'm warning you in advance. Here you go, buddy Bull. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200336	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He's hurt I'm gonna say a little bit, I didn't start talking, you'd like me to say before I get up, I can't. He was injured in Article 238, where a colleague told a lie, and you also wanted to confirm it, he told the truth that no agriculture was destroyed, that's what I said...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200337	Well, fellow Bull, you know, I just told my colleagues it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200338	You have destroyed agriculture, you have destroyed livestock farming, 100,000 people have moved out since the founding of the county, you are the undertakers of my Dalmatian Burn, and you can be ashamed and ashamed of everything you have done you have against the interest of the Croatian people in the area of Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200339	I'm asking you nicely not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are going to the next club of representatives, and this is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Balic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200340	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State Katic, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for supplementing the laws in question is the same, which is to suppress the spread of the coronary virus. It is indisputable that, due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, we all had to adapt our lives to new circumstances, resulting in most citizens having full changes in lifestyle and work. Participation in conferences, cultural and sports events is not possible, travel was the official one or the one with families had to be cancelled, all gatherings and gatherings will wait until further notice. It is absolutely certain that our daily life and the lives of all of us are changing, and that it will not be the same until the moment until a vaccine or medicine is found to contain this new disease or to obtain immunity. Unfortunately, we are fighting an invisible enemy that we can all overcome together by following the measures we have taken because by guarding ourselves, we protect others. The imperative of all activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which are primarily thought-out and responsible and based on the profession is to preserve the health and life of citizens. As we have also heard from the opening presentation, the aim of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Foreign Law is to enable third-country nationals to continue to use issued residence permits during the duration of the epidemic in order to continue uninterrupted stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is prescribed that actions in the administrative procedure that are nationals of third countries may be taken no later than 30 days after the end of the epidemic. I would not repeat exactly what the secretary of state said, so I would add that we hold that these contribute to the measures prescribed by the National Staff, all with the aim of protecting human lives and reducing the risk of spreading the pandemic of the coronary virus and will help foreigners enjoy regular stay and work in the Republic. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, it enables citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area to continue to use issued certificates on the application of a temporary stay and residence card during the course of the outbreak. And here is the prescribed deadline for taking the store no later than 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. All measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during this difficult time due to the epidemic are carried out primarily as I have already pointed out for the protection of human lives and the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to reduce the social contacts of citizens and reduce the need for contacts with officials in police administrations in order to combat the spread of the crown of the virus. What is also important to highlight is that by adopting the proposed additions to both laws, as well as by adopting the same Republic of Croatia protects fundamental rights, health and implements current recommendations and measures to combat the epidemic. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200341	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200342	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So, two laws that are de facto in the same category as a series of laws that we have already passed here, which is an extension of the duration of different documents, different documents on which people are identified or have a certain right, whether they stay anywhere, whether they are legitimate, whether they travel, whether they drive a car. So we have already extended the period of duration of ID cards, passports, driver's licenses and these two laws are in the same category, so on the one hand the extension of the residence permit to foreigners who have a residence permit and this residence permit is extended until the end of the epidemic plus 30 days, as well as all administrative actions related to it. The same applies to temporary residence cards and permits for citizens of the European Economic Area and members of their families. So I see absolutely nothing in dispute with either one, nor with another law fully in line with what we have already brought in this Parliament and which is the result of extraordinary circumstances. I would warn, however, on behalf of the GLAS Club on one fact, which is that in all these extensions, we are also passing the law on this, but also on other documents I mentioned earlier is always the deadline until the end of the epidemic plus 30 days. Now, let's say that the epidemic will last three months, it might take longer, I hope it won't, that all this will take three months, until the end is declared, and then you'll have 30 days for all the people who have expired any document to attack the police, the offices, the officers who will have to take it all out within 30 days. Some documents are like that, I warn simply that this could cause absolute chaos because everywhere the deadlines are the same. So some documents are of such nature that you have to give a short period. Some documents may, however, be of such a nature that the deadline can be extended, simply as they would now say at the time of the coronary virus to direct the curve, or to distribute for a long time, the search for these documents, the extension of these documents. Perhaps some documents can be used, this time can be used simply so that they can be obtained exclusively online, so by electronic means to avoid this crowd and the obvious rush that will occur, if we extend all the documents or deadlines for their validity as 30 days from the end of the epidemic. I'm warning you, people there are working on more experience with this, they're going to remember some more imaginative solutions, but we don't think it would be bad to start thinking about it now while it's time to avoid these crowds. The Voice Club will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200343	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Independent Youth List, which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200344	Dear Secretary of State, of course, that the bill's proposals are reasonable solutions that need to be passed and adopted in the Croatian Parliament and as such, they will be supported by our club because the question is someone who is here as a stranger, it is certain, especially to those persons something that is most important, as is the case for any citizen who is abroad, we see that during the past time, all countries and our country have tried to enable all our citizens to return to the country, and what is precisely what is the next step is that in the countries where our citizens are located, they are allowed to live as normally as possible, and so is our obligation to those who are with us, to ensure that they have as little discomfort as possible, and especially when we take into account that still our bureaucracy is more demanding, it takes a lot more to enable anyone to have any right, so that someone to stay with us and to obtain documents about it. In my opinion, this is a normal course, the issue of foreign citizens is becoming more and more current and when we talk about the events around the next tourist season. With, in the last few days, the situation with the status of the coronaryvirus in us getting better, it's getting stronger, it's becoming more and more emphasisary actually thinking about how to secure any tourist season in our country, and that actually gets foreign citizens to come to us, and then it's also a question of any of their rights that should be achieved in any situation in the Republic, even more demanding. Therefore, and it is always a question of reciprocity in these discussions that are being held, we must always demand and ask that we go to facilitate not only foreign citizens, but we should also make it easier for Croatian citizens to come to their country as easily as possible to produce any document and to come to institutions as little as possible. I think that we are at a turning point, not as far as foreigners are concerned, we could practically make one change in this way, in fact the whole social structure and the way that we function just to see that practical life is sometimes much more important, when the crisis shows how much the weight of all the shortcomings in which we often keep quiet as such. And then the question arises how are we going to bring a foreign tourist here, which we in fact in our entire system provide to all those who have difficulty. Because many are those who have their own objections to the functioning of the system, who have their real reasons why something might be difficult right now, but every tourist, a foreign citizen who comes to us, is primarily what interests him first is the matter of health care. Can we ensure absolutely normal functioning of the entire health system, that regular past the battle against the coronary virus? So it's one thing to view someone in the Republic of Croatia as a foreign citizen, as well as a Croatian citizen, and that is whether we are successful in fighting the coronavirus infection, on the other hand, whether we allow people with daily health problems, even those who would come to us in the country, to solve it. It's a step that we have to adopt in order to be successful towards anyone at all, and also towards foreigners. The second question that is raised in relations, these are now foreign relations, on the other hand, we have internal arrangements, the possibility of movement. We see that signs appear where our Prime Minister is having talks with his colleagues, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Austria, where you have made it possible for their tourists to come to us in a time when our man cannot, under the exception of going to a tourist destination, move. There's a little bit of that paradigm that's going on right now that's a little hard for someone like that to follow regularly. Okay, we're agreeing, we're going to let someone come as a tourist, and we're still living in a time of isolation that's for objective reasons is what it is, and now we've taken the first step, and I thank you here, for understanding those who've made decisions that the county area of those who think have a better epidemiological situation free to move and it's come to a positive step. Of course, as summer approaches, it will be a question of going primarily to Croatia's marine destinations, and then the second question will be, can I move there normally? Is, in what way is the system of overall protection actually organised and the same question is passed on to any foreign citizen because not everyone here is just for business reasons but there are even those who have come as tourists, they are being led as tourists but they are actually a more permanent time with us and they need certain rights and so are these rights that are now mentioned in the law. But we're always talking about foreign citizens and it's a question of reciprocity and keeping the figs in your pocket. As the talks that we're all going to end up watching because it's important for us to have a tourist season not only for tourism to happen but for everything that's related to spending in this tourism, somehow looking at those countries that are spoken to like Austria or the Czech Republic, let's look at what they're saying about us, how their politicians behave. One of the Austrians that we are fond of for their citizens to come to, has talks now at some level with us but their key politicians from their Prime Minister Kurtz and Minister Costinger are actually quite another point of view. They speak of it being, measures will be made easier and everything they remember mentioned, which is a recommendation for their citizens to stay in Austria for this tourist season and to think about how they will fill their domestic capacities and thus help the Austrian economy. And we see that this message is their tourist, it is much closer and simpler and in some ways more encouraging to their citizens where they are already announcing the possibility of summering, and they also limit it to the territory of the Republic of Austria and mention very little about the issue and the possibility of going to any country and also to Croatia. With the Czech Republic, communication may be something even better, watching the Prime Ministers talk but looking at their country president's statement. He's not the one who makes the decision but his recommendation is also important to their citizens and he says don't go abroad, borders should stay closed. So there is no reciprocity that we need to feel, does our media transmit that our government is talking, agreeing corridors, special arrivals, motorists from all these countries, and finally Germany says no, don't ic. We should then be in a matter that is regulated clearly that we are asking to be informed not only of the statements of our foreign affairs politicians but also of the issues, the same questions should also be asked to those countries, their ruling politicians, whom we want to see happen. And then come these practical issues that only when such a political agreement is reached which will be public and clear and reciprocal, then we can talk about everything we can and must give to any citizen of Croatia or a stranger, especially one who would come to Croatia to spend his vacation and to feel safe and also comfortable with what we offer. Here were the thoughts that I wanted to share about this, that the question of foreigners, of course, should be addressed, we should show solidarity, on the other hand, we should take care when we communicate relations with the abroad that we first solve relationships in the house and then when we get the impression that we are in free space, that we can also reason and that the same kind of freedom is given to anyone who comes and doesn't turn out to be people who believe that maybe any tourist from one Czech Republic would sooner come to sea than we will be able to move freely around Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200345	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic in the name of which time will be shared by the respected representative Zekanovic and Glasnović and the first respected representative of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200346	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we have no President-in-Office of the Parliament today, he went to Jasenovac together with Mr. Kitazi, a member of the Roma national minority, together with Milorad Pupovac, a member of the Serb national minority, together with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and together with the President of the Republic, means Zoran Milanovic. They all went to Jasenovac today, so here you are today. Every site, I've already talked about, needs to be learned the truth and every victim deserves a deep and Christian and human piety. When we talk about the Foreign Law, this is logical to extend the possibility of staying in Croatia for a month, but I have to ask one question here that needs to be imposed, we have some immigration, we have people coming from outside to Croatia, but we don't, because we don't have enough workforce, is the solution to import labour? Does the solution mean that without restrictions we receive foreigners or perhaps the solution is the demographic reconstruction of Croatia and the return of Croats outside, which are now in the diaspora or emigration? I think the solution is this other. Unfortunately, all EU countries, so our Croatia has always been able to access those easiest measures, let's just introduce the workforce a little bit, let's let the foreigners be there as long as they want, let them work, and then we'll solve the problem of labour shortages. But that's not the answer. I'm using a respected secretary of state here as an opportunity to ask one question, so maybe later if you're able to give an answer, it's not directly on the subject, but it's about the migrant crisis. Here, we have no information about the mainstream media because it's all complete it's closed, blocked, there only see those few people from HDZ who are members of the civilian headquarters, who provide daily information about the coronary virus, etc. But I'm also interested in citizens, what about the migrant crisis? So, just a little bit of data. Is there still an active Balkan route, are migrants there at the border of Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey entering the EU? Are there any migrants in BiH today? Do we have an inflow of migrants there? What's the situation in Bihac and Kladuma? And of course, most importantly, what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia? I hear all sorts of rumors, I wouldn't like to say anything here that's true, but here you'd like to hear what the situation is with the migrant crisis and are you, is that the trend of migrant passages through the Republic of Croatia downgraded, or is it still dropping or continuing? That's what the Croats are interested in. And the other thing, I'm sorry that Minister Bozinovic is not here as the president of the Civil Protection Staff, and I would like to hear from him when he finally thinks about letting go of these measures because with all due respect for the epidemiologists, I think we will suffer a lot more as a state than the economic crisis, so all these measures are released. And finally, one thing that is not directly related to this law, but I must mention it because on my heart, there is one measure that the minister, which is actually the legislator of this law, and it doesn't make any sense, and I see that some bishops of rebellion are also asking for the mitigation of this measure, the Holy Mass. So, Poland has a model that sacred Masses can be maintained, so I don't see why it would finally not intersect and find some model with a social distance that people other than those virtual sacred masses, which are some kind of substitut, can't say, can still access those sacred masses live. That means a lot of people, I'll even say life, so you should think about it. Thank you. Here comes my colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200347	Dear Representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200348	Dear colleagues, draft law supplementing the Foreign Law. I read that law. In that law, COVI-19 SARS is mentioned 14 times, 14 times. It means the law, the law has been passed and the final proposal for an emergency this procedure is also a proposal, which means we have passed the law quickly. Emergency atmosphere. And I'm wondering now, if that's the case, how come we're not, we're waiting a quarter of a century, 30 years. to bring the Law on Croats out of country, we haven't done it yet. It's nebulosis, exactly nebulosis. There are some people sitting, the left wing of a party that is pathologically hating everything that is Croatian, from the beginning, that's how they cooperate, and today we see this hatred that we and we are breaking this law, and the Croats in BiH who are an integral part of the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia have constitutional obligations to protect that people there because our border is thousands and miles away. Already, look how much, Mr. Ostojić I'm telling you, how many Croats from BiH died in the defence of Vukovar, look at the percentage in HV, HV. You are today rebelling against 45 million kunas which went into, it's a blastemia, to a bridge hospital. There are Croatian children down there. Because the Croats sent you in the war, I know because I was a commander, I'm a Croatian general, they were sending help droppers to Vukovar, four choir areas were bleeding in BiH. It is the Bosnian Posavina, where most Croats died, central Bosnia, north-western Herzegovina and Mostar that we have today, that we sit today and express our views on this in the Croatian National Assembly. 45 million kunas, I've never heard anyone object to, say, this one for half a billion, more than half a billion kuna given to a church that's a national church. A sect called the Serbian Orthodox Church, no one objected to it. More than half a billion kuna and we also pay for it in Italy and Slovenia, paid by the Croatian tax collector, I don't hear that rebellion. I don't hear a rebellion for the former resuming communists of their children run by NGOs, who have only one task, which is holding the Republic of Croatia on the indictee bench in front of international courts and the world public. I didn't hear that rebellion. I have not heard that you have ever spoken that this Croatian state is in addition to the trades of Croats from BiH, plus hundreds of millions of kunas. That's where our products go. It's not just a matter of economy, it's a strategic issue because if it wasn't for those... Assembly areas today you would not have a Croatian state, and your mujahadins would be down in the Neretva Valley. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know because I ran three of those four choir areas there. It's a historical truth. The historical truth doesn't care. Also, the Croats are not interested in sending 16 billion kunas out there, that's not what people are interested in, and that some of them have retired here, they've got double taxation, that's not what people are interested in. But what's scary is that I'm working on media in a coalition with someone, not Croatian organisations and parties, taking advantage of that ignorance against the Croatian people. And a full stop is shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200349	A fellow Glasnović?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200350	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200351	The subject is the Law supplementing the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200352	That's what I'm saying. I'm going back to law school. I'm going back to law school. The criteria, so wait, we also have sharp criteria, criteria for, what are the criteria, let's say for this stay, what are we talking about? We're very quick to do this, for, for, for extended, extension of temporary residence permits, for permanent stay, what are the criteria? Because it's faith, it's Catholics from Syria, it's deficiting interests what we need here, we, we can't get more plumbers here, what are the criteria, what are the corresponding criteria, and I'm going back to this and we still don't have the law, the criteria for Croats outside the country. Scary. Scary. We have some countries, let's say there's a quota, the state of Québec, the province of Québec in Canada has a quota. Canada has a quota for staying, for the arrival of 320 and a few thousand immigrants by the end of this year. In the province of Québec, those who come to the new Canadians must complete a test, a test of language, history. I just hope they don't repeat here the history test written by our southern historians and what we heard this morning, that they won't have to watch this violence against our history, the falsification of an activist and lesbian rights that isn't even... Neither historian nor historian, and this forger, mentioned by Mr. Zekanovic this morning, MP Zekanovic, is calling this Djana Budisavljevic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the director of this violence and masochism that we're doing here in the Parliament today, masochism, it's a historical falsification. Each victim has his own name, and these victims are not allowed to be instrumentsized because the truth has no ideological omen. By that, it's terrifying that we are sitting in this House today discussing these issues, none that have been resolved today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200353	Thank you very much. Buddy Bull, are you something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200354	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club on the subject of amending the law, supplementing the Foreign Law, to consult at the club. I'd say this law makes it easier, i.e. It extends to foreigners who have a stay and residence in the Republic of Croatia in a way that we simply have to talk here and about people, Croatian citizens who are outside, what measures they have towards them are related, i.e. Croatian citizens. We need to talk about whether at this point the measures we have towards foreigners, when they were never again needed by foreigners, in which way we observe the migrant, too, migrant crisis. Do we have any information, I was saying on behalf of the club, do we have illegal migrants? How many illegal migrants do we have? People in the border area tell me that there's a large number of migrants because they're left with slaves, all that's left. Do you have that information and do you control it from and from this, do they have a coronary virus? Do you have any information? That's what all of a sudden there was silence. In this House we should also discuss these topics, the law is on foreigners, the extension of their stay, permission, permission to be there, however, what about Croatian citizens and measures? According to Croatian citizens, discrimination and repression by institutions, the prominent representative of the government, such as from the inspectorate of state Andrija Mikulic towards our domestic hosts, is solely for the sake of discrimination and repression. We can't just look at foreign interests, and we can't look at the interests of our people in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I invite you to watch interests of Croatian citizens. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200355	I'll see you five minutes is a break. I'll see you in 11 and 53 minutes. [[It's 11:00.48.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:55 A.M.]] Here's a break, so I'm going to ask that on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word is taken by a respected representative, Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200357	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Minister and I purposely call you Deputy Minister because you are always there, so instead of a minister who is not worthy of coming to this House, I'm going to say at first that one of the things that we have committed to in our oath as parliamentary deputies, I'm going to speak the truth, and I'm also going to try to defend myself from everything that my colleagues are allowed to do earlier, and that is to say, by name and last name, that in a short situation, and that's that the rebel director of the Bridge Hospital has been allowed. He said "you don't want money." So much for how much joy you receive from your meanings, your countrymen and neighboring countries. What I want to highlight is, this is the moment in which you should choose priorities and while our hospitals are down, then the first decision should probably be made and as far as Croats are concerned outside the country, then I must stress that one of the things is not just a matter of how they become members of a social community already has one obligation that is very important and that they pay taxes in that same state. So let us start by paying taxes, paying something that is our constitutional right, the right to health and the right to health care, and in these moments many take advantage of and still make fun of what they can do whenever they want, whatever they want and come to hospitals without any compensation and never even thinking about who pays for it. Our taxpayers pay, we pay. As for my expectations today, I believed that in addition to a unique memorial in Jasenovac, that even here as usual, we would have at least a minute of silence for people who went to the breakthrough on April 22, 1945, but again I will only speak the truth and then, with the cry "Forward, comrades!", Ante Bakovic, a 24-year-old Sinjanin, a camper, led 600 people into a breakthrough. They were the ones who were able to move, those were the ones who refused to reconcile with the near and unquestionable death after she was killed, the women in the women's part of the camp were killed, after the children were killed, it was clear that they would be killed too. Of the 600 men in the breach, 106 survived. 473 sick old and powerless, were killed and burned on the same day. So much for 1073 campers left alive at that moment, therefore, that's true. And that's why it's good to have a movie today that's going to be screened and for each other's sakes and it's good for some to learn the truth about that history. Secondly, I still want to say that, which is, I don't need anyone here to figure out what the contribution is. I'm a member of an independent Split volunteer battalion, I'm a member of the 141st brigade, I'm a volunteer of the Homeland War, I'm the one who's been on all these lines you're talking about, and when you're talking about the dead, then you should remember those who died behind the Storm on Graham and 141st brigades. I'm back on the subject now, I just used what was given to everyone else. [[Intruder Reiner: Col. Ostojić, excuse me, please return to the topic, supplement of the Foreign Law.]] We have today two similar laws, an extension, similar to what we've had so far. It's a clean throw of dust in the eyes, and it's that actually real things like I asked you to do before, we don't get on the table. We don't have a crisis profit or anti-crisis profiting or anti-profit policy here today, we don't have changes to the CAP, because at this point the police have to record the video and can't, it has to be in a situation where they file criminal charges, courts don't work, this has become a haven for criminals, but it obviously isn't important and important things at this point for these laws to be implemented, but therefore for these extensions that I think even, could be in the variant that they could be given as well as instructions. The moment 950,000 passes were issued, 950,000 e-passes, we have a situation to reduce social contacts, we're passing this kind of law, and at the same time you're actually sending a message that instead of using this to solve the issue in the accelerated electronic progress of the MUP, you're actually sending a message that we're going to go back to the Stone Age. An example that speaks of how it is done, which is the question of residence and residence. You yourself said that foreigners under this law who can come to their dwellings, residences will perhaps go into isolation or something, but they will power into their cottages. That is why time, a Croatian citizen in the Republic of Croatia, has been denied the right to change residence and residence. Who in this country has the right to suspend the law and I don't know by whose decision? If that's the variant that someone calls on the government's 7th head any decision on how the civil servants are going to work, yes, but it says that it's possible electronically. Electronicly it was possible to change the residence before, so this only says how the law is not respected by that ministry that you expect to be first in respect of the law. As for limiting freedom without a solution, constitutional right to appeal, it obviously doesn't matter. Today, it is not decided that Beroš and Markotic become members of the headquarters, the solution was adopted on February 20th, and we do not have such a supplement, and it is so simple that at least we do not bring those people into a situation to actually be associated, random for 50 days. What is true, and this is SDP has given measures both to restore the health system to normal and the economy. We hope that these things will still be heard with seriousness for the reasons that so far we have talked about both passes and some other measures, which is that we will be unique and complex about all those good measures, but we will not be silent about the missed, and especially illegal measures. For this reason, it is not a question of supporting this law that it is quite certain that the law can be, passing, not at all a problem. But I'm talking about it, which is that in this way, you probably have a supply and some other extensions and so forth, in this assembly that works no matter what is not an emergency, no matter what is not a war, no matter what is not a disaster, we're in a situation today that we have to actually get laws that I won't say are unnecessary, but they're really not priority. People aren't numbers, headquarters should be an operational body, they can't replace parliament in any way, and therefore they should come to the table with those measures that are also the laws that are precisely in order to address the situation we currently have. I will also mention the following, which is about uniforms, five-colonguers, letters, sending, mass gatherings of two women, breaking up the same, sick mothers who are trying to get to the hospital, and I can't bring a child, I must tell you that at this point in time, there are life-threatening citizens whose political decision of headquarters to freeze the regular health system is endangering life. It's something that needs to be dealt with urgently because other diseases are not waiting for you either. So if we agree that people are not figures, then we will probably be able to get to the point that constitutional and human rights that are prescribed in our basic document will not be violated. So much for me for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200358	Representative Glasnovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200359	Well, that's Article 238, I think more manipulation and half-truth was spoken than.../incomprehensible/... first of all, when it comes to this tax, Croats are 16 billion kunas every year coming here outside their homeland and you've thrown double taxation on those who have returned, and you didn't object when you paid 10 thousand pensions in Serbia, you didn't object. And what contribution did they make to this country? That's, there's a lot more to what I'd say here, I don't have time right now. I'm looking for a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200360	Thank you very much. This, of course, has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you again not to abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to have to give you a heads-up again, and I thought you calmed down, but I guess some things don't work at all. I will now ask on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics, the respected representative of Vlah Orepic to perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200361	Dear Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, I want to take the opportunity to begin at the beginning, and in the name of the club, to honor the innocent victims of the Independent State of Croatia as the greatest disgrace of the Croatian people in history, and in this spirit, I welcome the unity of the state summit, which has gone to honor, or to commemorate the innocent sacrifice. As far as these concrete proposals are concerned, if we look at them in isolation, we can say that there is nothing unacceptable about it because it solves some kind of problem that we have encountered because of something we have just called an epidemic. And that was voted by a man or civil protection headquarters who didn't have to do it, but here's the situation. What am I saying? That this is one in a series of legislative proposals that all of us here together, all of us here and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to be concerned. Why? We have become so tolerant of an unparliamentary procedure, of an unparliamentary behaviour in this country of Croatia that it is worrying. Everyone, almost all the laws are passed by revote and haste procedure. The formal or informally called community of some kind, and each occasion, a unique opportunity to achieve a social consensus, one political consensus of the common political being of the Republic of Croatia and you watch out for it, the only legal possibility to deal with this crisis is the consensus and community that is united in law and that is totally ignored in this situation, which is the Law on the Homeland Security System. Why? Just so we don't declare that we're in a crisis. We are in crisis by all indicators, and it should be, the inter-resor body should declare this because it is the only authority under the State Security System Act to propose to the Government to pass the law, to vote the crisis, to propose bodies that will manage the crisis and to propose measures that will respond to this crisis. In that spirit, this, these suggestions of yours that are individually acceptable because they solve some practical life problem are totally unacceptable because they are part of a worrying non-democratic practice in the Republic which, in some ways, mutated into a pathological state. The pathological state in relation to what we need to have here, or we need to be the mirror of a democratic society. A problem that no one has ever covered in this particular issue when we talk about foreigners. We have a category of people who look like this. So, after the Homeland War 134,000 documents were given to people who moved out of the Republic of Croatia and no longer live in the Republic of Croatia, who have, to put it in public, the papers of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Homeland War here, at least 250 000 documents, Croatian documents from residence and citizenship have been given to people who have never lived in the Republic of Croatia. And we're talking about a sum of 384 000 people. The 384 000 formal population of the Republic of Croatia now accounts for nearly 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, which we say if we assume there are 4 million of us. But that's not the problem either. Non-resolvement of fictitious residences reflects this situation significantly. We have a situation that out of 384 000, it's safe, I'm talking about minimum numbers, a minimum of 100,000 which temporarily, which is constantly working in the Republic of Croatia. Let's just say that's not a problem either. But we have one problem that we face every day, which is several thousand people on a daily basis crossing the border from the Republic of Serbia towards the country where they live, mainly the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH. On a daily basis, people go to sleep after work in Serbia or BiH and return to work in the Republic of Croatia the next day. And here, by not consulting this high house, we deny the movement of our citizens. Why? Just because we're in an election campaign. I don't see any other rational explanation. The only rational explanation of why political and overall social consensus in the Republic of Croatia does not want to be achieved on this issue is a purely pre-election campaign, that is, for political purposes. And it worries me, and it amazes me, and it's simply unacceptable. We must fight against it literally by all means. That's inadmissible. I'll finish with the simple stuff. Given the problems, the practical life problems this proposal changes and complements will help our club support it, but in all possible ways we will try to point out and ask that the government's final action is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the existing law of the Republic of Croatia. You just can't work like this. No one has the right, and it's constantly done, which is evidence last week of the passed law. Look, I think it's the only experience in the history of all democracy, to pass laws, amendments and additions to laws that cover the month and a half of the illegality of the government's work. That's terrible. Dear citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues, we must not allow the violation of democracy, parliamentary practice in this high house and in our society at all because of this call for the necessary resolution of the crisis we have encountered, the situation we have encountered because it is not true. The truth is that if the government continues to run this business, it deals exclusively with pre-election campaigns, not solving life rather than solving the life problem that we see and clearly recognize in this pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200362	The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sauch will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. These two laws today that are ahead of us are actually the logical continuation of that set of laws that we passed two or three weeks ago when we were sitting in the old building of the INA and in fact it is going to reduce the social contact of users, older users, citizens who should at this point mean changing certain documents or we should get some of the certificates within the services they provide, providing the MUP in their own, their own facilities. And, therefore, these two laws, the draft law supplementing the Law on Foreigners and the proposal of the Law on, means to the citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and their family members, in parallel, to simply confirm that they have received about their stay here in the Republic of Croatia and all those documents that are bound to do so remain valid for the duration of this pandemic up to 30 days after the end of the pandemic. I would like to look back here in fact, I just want to say, of course, that these two laws are common sense, that they are in the office, that they are correct and that, of course, the NNS Club will support them, just as we have supported these laws regarding the extension of the validity of personal documents, so ID cards, passports, driver's licenses. However, he would like to look back, as Mrs. Prof. Pusic and I think that there is absolutely right, that it might come very easily to one suppression of the system after it comes to an end, the official termination of the end of this pandemic, and where we will then return to the condition in which we were previously, so that for any confirmation or any document goes personally to the police administration, which I do not think is good, in this particular case, there will surely have to be one suppression, and people will probably wait for the exercise of their rights i.e. I don't know how it's going to be regulated at that point. This one, as we've heard many times, this epidemic, and one day it stops, i.e. When the epidemic officially ceases, the danger of the virus itself will surely not disappear forever at least until the vaccine is found and my hair lifts up on my head from thinking that after the outbreak is formally stopped, after all these people who are now in a position not to be able to exercise their rights. I can't raise my ID, passport, driver's license, I don't know, check out my residence, residence, etc., now all of a sudden, crowd up into these police administrations, there's going to be an insufferable rush again, there's going to be a closer contact, so exactly the opposite of what they're telling us all the time that we're going to change our lives, that we're never going to be in a position again, and that when that epidemic stops, we're back in that close social contact. I think this is one moment when you really should as a state do everything to make that concept of previous, therefore coming physically personal, coming into the offices of the MUP, to reduce as much as possible, to reduce, therefore, to allow for all those documents for which you really do not absolutely need personal contact, so the arrival of citizens, to enable the extraction of such documents through the E-Citizen system. Of course, in situations where a fingerprint is to be given, it is unfortunately impossible to replace it but, unfortunately, once these personal data are given as a fingerprint, I think the fingerprint doesn't change with years, after having a recent photo, it also takes several certain years, so that it is possible for a citizen from the safety of his home at a time when he answers, to fill out the required forms, to pay certain fees that need to be paid, it doesn't always have to be through famous and legendary tags, but it can probably be paid and made through general payments, means Internet banking, in other words, to make all of this from home and then at home address within a certain time limit, the person arrives at the recommended post office of a particular document. I don't see why we would actually provide for these laws to return to what was before, instead of saying that in the end, that in some way and stimulates citizens that in this period when some are in isolation and have extra time, they might master the use of this system of e-citizens and that in this period they are now making what they should possibly wait for when one day the epidemic passes. I personally, I tried to use myself the other day with the E-Citizens system and I have to admit that it's quite infamous, it's not as simple as I hoped it was, but yet, I mean, nothing is so complicated that man couldn't handle it with a little effort. So, perhaps on the one hand, some suggestion to the Ministry of Administration which is responsible for the system of E-Citizens that the instructions for use are little, how can I say, in layian language written, so that this and the user friendlyly, as he throws my colleague out of the background, to make it a little easier for us who are not informationally verifiable and on the other hand, I also say to the MUP that as much as possible allow the use of this system and to bypass that direct contact with the counter. I mean, here's what the secretary of state told me that the offices in Petrinjska were devastated in an earthquake, they moved to Heinzel's, it's a slightly bigger building, but whoever was in Heinzel or worse, in Petrinjska, knows what kind of space it was. There, I mean, there was one epidemiological bomb, whether it was a coronary virus or any other, I don't know, any other virus at that point, no. I mean, and that system of taking a note, so now you're the one and that order absolutely doesn't work, people know literally 5, 6 take those notes, they throw them on the floor, they go, nobody knows when it's coming, mostly, you're still doomed to sit there or stand there and wait forever, no. So it's a waste of time for people who should be working for that time and, of course, putting them at risk and officials and citizens and everyone else. I think it might be good for a word of one information that I don't know if the Secretary of State said, but here I will take this opportunity because I have been consulting with him because it was personally of interest to me, so that there is a possibility at this time of application/department means extension of residence and registration/department of residence in a particularly justified situation i.e. Circumstances. So, everyone can go to the MUP sites, it's quite nice to point out and see, at least at this point, the list of exceptions from the general suspension of the application/departure of residence and residence, that I don't now list them, they're listed on the pages, so if you go into that category, you can make an appointment via mail or phone, and you can sort out this situation, so you don't necessarily have to wait for this pandemic to pass and then enter into that one chaos. I mean chaos, there's a crowd that'll come after that. So, with these kind of observations I don't know, I can say that the HNS Club certainly supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200364	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200365	Thank you very much. Secretary, respected citizens, representative of the government, the laws we passed when the municipalities were closed yesterday, you couldn't from the municipality to the municipality there was a huge burden on Croatian police officers, I wish you'd given them an addendum to the coronary virus if there were six municipalities and local self-government in the Ceti area alone, everywhere there were blockades so that you exhausted people. We see an illogical structure at the same time in the county, and at the same time we can go this, here we talk about the Foreign Law which also, I agree, could be made by some decision extension, not debate, we have much more important things, we see.../incomprehensible/... The Republic of Croatia means the construction units themselves, that we have counties which are a problem because of the institution owned, i.e. For a county-owned facility. In my county, we have a lot of problems about the coronary virus. We would simply have to talk a lot more seriously about forming the Republic of Croatia, and right now the law should be here, it would be easier for the police to do this on the subject of formation because simple counties are pointless and the triba to terminate them immediately, while at the same time we are here talking about the Law on Detentions, the extension of their residence or work permits of what they need in the Republic of Croatia. While at the same time our citizens who have been paying 6.5% of GDP into the Republic budget, somewhere around 20 billion kunas that have been evicted by the governments of the Republic of Croatia are the ones who are paying that kind of money are currently this one out there in other countries, they are a website in other countries. As they send money here and no one mentions it, the way they return, as it is in these countries, whether they are granted an extended permit, is not extended to them and how they are treated is good, with tourism the most payments are from the signs of those you have spent with your policies. And speaking of this foreign law, I was asking one key question. What about migrants illegally? There's a way in. What is that number, and did you control it from the coronary virus, while at the same time we see that the headquarters blocked all the municipalities, all the cities by its decision. Is there or isn't there? And did you control them? Did they run tests on the coronary virus? These are the things we need to talk about. However, in this assembly in this debate, here are the Ustashas and the Partisans I see, today there have been discussions about it even though it is off topic, which means we are going back to day-to-day settled politics, but I would like to talk here about the problems that quieten our citizens. It's a declaration for our fishermen, an exclusive economic belt. To ban the sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons, to divide the country into our peasant and to return the village 800,000 hectares of agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture is doing nothing, to finally put what we propose to the moratorium for a year on interest and loans that this government no longer be, the distinguished representative of the government of the rights of bankers, rather than to fight for the rights of Croatian people, Croatian people and his problems. These would be the topics we should be discussing here right now. And no, there was everything here, and I was warned by what I mentioned about agriculture. Of course I mentioned agriculture when there's no one to farm land. And that's a question of strangers because the foreigners will buy it, and our children will dig on our cause for foreign interests. And of course we're finally going to destroy that import lobby. To destroy that and the crown lobby, he continued, he was before the import lobby, now he's a crown lobby because we see that we have Greek strawberries on shelves, we have all the products, and we don't have enough Croatian. I expect that we will finally fight for the Croatian people and make decisions in the interest of the Croatian people and Croatian survival, Croats to survive in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200366	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, you spoke of this Foreigner Act, that the Foreigner Act should therefore be passed, and therefore it is necessary. It seems to me that sometimes our government, most of the time, acts as if our citizens are foreigners, and here's one example of the orderly refusal of electronic voting, so for people outside the country, they're foreigners, not our citizens, and that's exactly the people who moved out because of such policies. And they've been evicted by 1,000 and 1,000, and now we're getting messages that they're not actually our citizens because they're going to vote in countries that have therefore protective measures if they're not allowed to vote electronically and by letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200368	Dear Representative Bulj,.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200369	These are issues from those who are paying into the budget, and Croatian policies have pushed them out, even to say unanimously both HDZ and Arsen Bauk SDP are not an electronic vote because the diaspora will get the opportunity to vote. But the diaspora has the right to three MPs as many as voted to vote. However, there are people who have moved out, empty is Slavonia, my Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Lika, who have moved out in recent years because of policies that are being implemented in the Republic of Croatia to the detriment of Croatian people. And why don't we give him an electronic vote? And I don't understand how HDZ and SDP are unique. But this government of Andrej Plenkovic is recognizable in the fact that it stepped on the referendum and spit 400,000 people in the face by not allowing a referendum, it was the People's Decision initiative on this matter where the electronic vote would be resolved, and MOST also gave the proposal, the conclusion, and We also have a legal initiative. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200370	The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200371	Dear Representative Bulj, I would like to say that at the same time as our citizens are being harassed by quarantine, while Croatian police are stopping citizens all over the country for no reasonable reason, at the same time many illegal migrants are illegally crossing our border, but obviously nobody cares because our government serves a global agenda, an agenda aimed at replacing the structures of the European population and destroying the middle class economically. I'm surprised at the people who support her in the elections, I can't understand them, I can't understand them, and I just hope that my own people will open their eyes and that when they're elected they won't vote for those who hold them in quarantine and isolation but for those who want to free them and who want to move the police or the repressive apparatus to our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200372	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200373	And the primary question at this point is that. And we've been setting it up all morning. Here, I've asked the question 10 times. Whether there are illegal migrants and whether they are tested by coronaryvirus if we have measures and, if we do, it means taking away certain freedoms from Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens. And we haven't received that answer yet because the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the first, our neighbouring countries haven't, flew to accept the Marekekje dispute, the Marekek compact as a rescue, will be saved by the Marekje agreement. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, representative of the MUP, secretary of state, are there any illegal entry of migrants and how many have you tested since the coronary virus? So do you have that information and they come in every day? There are many in Bosnia here, along the border of the Republic of Croatia, and no one is talking about it. Why? Because you don't care, it's more important to control Croatian citizens and introduce mobile tracking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200374	The following is the replica of the respected representative, Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200375	Dear fellow Bully, today was not a return to the debate of partisans and Ustasha, it was a little different, and that was related to truth and Croatianism. And I'm going to quote my colleague Vučetic, he's not here today, but he's going to talk about it on Friday, so I'm taking the right to say his status. "Croatia was achieved in the anti-fascist movement, not in the fascist riot. Croatia was captured and imprisoned in Jasenovac." Therefore, don't forget some things, the question of the truth, and about electronic voting you have a list of parliamentary issues, so look at the RS government's answer to my question of electronic voting before the European elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200376	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200377	Col. Ostojic, there is, means the EU Declaration that all totalitarian regimes should be condemned and bowed down to all victims both communist and fascist and Nazi. And God never lets God repeat the sentence your colleague Nenad Stazic said to Bleiburg until '45. The winner didn't finish his job, that he had to kill everything he had to kill. I can't even say it in my sleep. That's the kind of thing we need to build on, not share on victims. And not as it is today from Jasenovac, a message is being sent that Hos plates should be removed and thrown into trash from people like Redkappa, from people from Vukovar who fought alongside us in the Homeland War, condemning these people and thus doing the division. No, let's bow down to all the victims, but let's fence ourselves from the words that are, calling for a clone, which calls for killings and crimes as your colleague Stazic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200378	The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200379	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you've talked a little bit about the movements of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Corona in the world did, we all know what. Our government has limited itself and made a row in that part of the movement. I'm asking you who's the most damaged here? Most damaged craftsman and, and entrepreneur. Everyone who's on the budget has gone far the best. Therefore, this government has done everything and singled out the budget, second in Europe, only Malta has more singled out of the budget, second in GDP has singled out the second Republic of Croatia which has given to entrepreneurs, and we must praise it rather than criticise it. And let's look at how many of us have patients in the Republic of Croatia compared to all the neighboring countries. So this is what we need to talk about positively and say that this government did one real thing that it didn't, God forbid some of them were sloppy, so he said money is important to us, let's open the borders and make business work. Today we'd have a lot of hospitals and thousands of sick people in hospitals and... buried like in Italy and Spain. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200380	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200381	Dear fellow Members, as an opposition and as a club of MOST, we accepted all government proposals, and when we gave in the first set of measures we gave amendments that were accepted, the government only, as a club, accepted in the second set and we accepted all the measures that we believe should be accepted. However, I agree with you that both the entrepreneur and the craftsman are damaged, but they are not bankers whose government, whom you praise, is nothing. That's why we Parliamentarians have to vote this out if the banks have extra profits. The craftsmen and the caterers are damaged, and now they are being damaged by the very government inspectorate appointed by this government, Andrija Mikulić, who closes people because of what they had in front of them, where they left food, and not by McDonald's, they also benefit from foreign bankers. Now, there's a problem that always destroys domestically, and you're witnesses, you come from Slavonia, which is made for the Croatian craftsman and farmer and peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200382	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200383	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although it is difficult for many to admit it, and the figures do not lie happily, Croatia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the epidemic of the coronary virus and at the rate of the infected and at the rate of mortality. That's what the following data tells us. Belgium has 492 deaths per million inhabitants, Spain 437, Italy 390, France 303, Great Britain 238, Netherlands 216, Switzerland 162, Sweden 153, Denmark 61, Germany 54, Austria 50, Slovenia 35, Norway 30, Hungary 19, Czech Republic 17, Croatia 11, Poland 9, Slovakia 2. From this point on, we can conclude that the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the National Crisis Centre are making the necessary decisions in due time, all services and institutions are doing their job well, as well as that citizens stick to these recommendations and instructions. In order to continue to successfully fight an outbreak of the coronary virus, it is important to further reduce social contact. For these very reasons, i.e. that the fewer citizens are coming to the police station counters, the government recently sent additionals to the emergency parliamentary procedure to the 4th laws extending the period of validity for IDs, passports, driver's licenses, weapons lists, at least 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic. Today we are discussing a similar topic. extending the validity of certificates on the application of temporary stay and residence cards for nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and permitting residence for third-country nationals. All these documents issued will be valid for them 30 days from the day of the end of the epidemic or any prescribed action that is required under the administrative procedure may be carried out within that time limit. All of them would be able to stay in the Republic during the duration of the epidemic. As we discuss the fight against the crown of the virus, and then the consequences at county and local levels were, for example, minor discrepancies as to what some newspaper articles tell us. So I quote “The parish headquarters warned the Varazdin doctors because they do not follow the instructions, this is their answer” near the quote. And it's about the media correspondence of family medicine doctors and the county headquarters of the Varazdin County, which is run by no less than the deputy mayor in charge of health care, and thus is also the parent home of health that these doctors belong to. I don't know where else that deputy mayor is and the head of the county headquarters during this crisis with doctors communicates through the media. Then, he quotes "The rational and cautious move of General Hospital Director Varazdin or the actual shortage of protective masks" by the quote. This article shows that the chief concern of the Director of the General Hospital in Varazdin was the distribution of protective masks. Then a series of articles on some new structure, new areas, new coordinations and civil protection structures, etc., and recently on measures to save the economy. So the president of the Varazdin County Chamber of craftsmen says, quotes "The most important agreement was reached with the Varazdin County, full consent and understanding of the problem which is in line with both the intentions and possibilities of the county" by the quote. This is about establishing a county solidarity fund for craftsmen. The fund plans to collect about a million and a half kuna to help craftsmen in this crisis. Of course, any assistance is welcome, but do these experts really consider a Varazdin economy that makes up more than 6,600 crafts and companies active about 26 billion kunas to be saved with a million and a half kuna. What about the unemployed, what about the O.P.G.? On the contrary, the government has allocated around 200 million kuna to save jobs in the area of the Varazdin County, which is obvious to those experts nothing. Regardless of all these regional local considerations, the current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic enjoys no greater support, 94% of citizens believe that the government is taking appropriate measures in the battle with the coronary epidemic, 80% that it is dealing well with the effects of the coronary virus, and over 50% thinks that Croatia is going in the right direction. He therefore considers it desirable to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200384	I'm asking you to stick to the subject. So far we're starting to leave more and more, there's both Ustasha and Partisan and this and that, let's please stick to the subject, there are two laws to discuss, and we have a free speech, we've had free speeches, we'll have it tomorrow, we can talk about whatever we want. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200385	Thank you very much. Mr. Strick, you have questioned the desire and intention of helping the Varazdin County of Mr. Cacic, who probably has more knowledge of the economy than the entire economic part of the Government headed by Darko Horvat, when all are summed up together. But I'm curious as to why you're not so critical of the state's HOK or the craft chamber where Mr. Ranogajek stands on the presses of Andrija Mikulić. So a man stands behind Andrija Mikulić for whom, your party colleague from the City of Zagreb, for whom 90% of entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia probably thinks he should resign after this measure on Saturday when he closed a restaurant for a table in front of him. So why aren't you so critical of these entrepreneurs? They recognize it as harmful, and you've come across a small chateau that's correct. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200386	Although, of course, that doesn't have anything to do with it either, the Honorable Agent Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200387	If you listened well to me, I did not criticise anyone, I merely cited the figures and the exact amount of these measures and support by the county, by the government and everyone involved. I don't know who I was criticizing, the projects don't lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200388	Replica has a respected representative, Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200389	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Strick, you mentioned quite a lot in your discussion exactly the measures of the government, and especially the MUP as the person who has been in the system and the defence for a long time, but I am also interested in the MUP himself, so why do you think that, in comparison, what you have read, of all countries we are so successful and so we have better indicators than others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200390	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200391	Thanks, buddy. First of all, I believe that the government has taken all the measures in time, then the profession has been heard, and among other things, for a wonderful miracle, the citizens are more or less adhered to by all these recommendations of the crisis headquarters. So I think that just in synergy all three of these parts we've made one really good result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200392	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200393	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is here before us as we have heard a united debate on two laws concerning the additions of the Law on Foreigners and the addition of the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. We know that these two laws, in particular the Foreigners Act regulates precisely matter related to the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia, their visas, equal status regarding education and study of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, research, normal and approval of the EU blue, blue cards of highly qualified foreigners who are insufficient to work and research in the Republic of Croatia and how their status is regulated on entry, but also during normal and residence in the Republic of Croatia and their work and everything else. The State Secretary himself has mentioned several things to us in the introduction and it is good to deal with these figures regarding third-country nationals to whom this law will apply, they are currently in the Republic of Croatia which have some approved form of residence 66582, while as regards citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area, they are currently 12447 in the Republic of Croatia, normally each of them has a different type of residence in the Republic of Croatia, why they were granted it, for business, education, family integration, etc. Normally, it is necessary to support these amendments to both the laws and to reduce the administrative problems that these people are currently facing and normally to reduce this social contact and to reduce all procedures that would lead to the threat of any Croatian civil servants, any foreign citizens who are in the Republic of Croatia and should be extended either to stay or to a residence card or any other form of administration they need to do 30 days after the pass of the pandemic itself. In the very introduction of the replica, I referred to several segments that are important to the Republic of Croatia when we mention foreigners and citizens and third countries, but also to the European Economic Area, I think we should put an emphasis there and probably a lot of things will be clearer after tomorrow's session of the government that I believe, what we see and now, the indications that it will be because of these precisely and the good results that the government is doing to suppress the pandemic, I think there will be a mitigation of certain measures. A great emphasis, since this is the end of 4 months, we have to put, the biggest inquiry of tourist and agency and tourist workers down with everyone, along with everyone who has problems, not to mention hospitality, but I think this is the first wave of nautical tourism that is just starting to be regular and that the normal year that would start at this time has opened our marinas and hotels, driven yachts and boats and boats. I think that the foreigners who own a certain real estate or vessel in the Republic of Croatia must make certain measures for them because it is definitely the first wave where Croatian tourism could be exploited and I think those people are willing to have a particular movement or real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, so I believe they also have a tradition of coming to the Republic, and we are also sending a signal and security and stability, and I think that the ministry should find a way to speed up the arrival of these guests on our coast. The second segment that we will soon have to touch is precisely the seasonal workers who, every season, come from other countries to the Republic of Croatia to work. Normally, this law regulates and quotas that the foreigners meet annually to work in the Republic of Croatia and what our needs are. I believe that in the next month we'll have to touch that subject too. And one commendation to both the ministry and the government when we touch very few foreigners, but also foreign policies, is on this segment of return and our citizens from other countries. I hope that we also have a principle of mutuality between our partner countries, and here we also have to highlight maritimeity, which is very important for our Croatian economy and I believe that we need the same help from our sailors when we go to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200394	Thank you. Next individual debates by respected representative Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200395	Honored Vice President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, this is a better term. So, Secretary of State, it's time that I'm actually stressing the same things I just said in a club debate. We're talking about laws that are, so I'm going to say, absolutely not the priority of this assembly at times if this is a serious crisis. And that's what makes me sad and I'm going to do it again, and that's if the freedoms of citizens are limited without the right to appeal, if there's a situation happening to suspend the Law of residence and residence, I don't know whose decision, if the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is being violated, it should be the laws that should be here on the agenda. If the police are prevented from implementing the Criminal Procedure Act, it should be changed, it is a situation where it will be illegal evidence and will be unable to do anything about it. For that reason, I ask you, instead of these laws that are definitely throwing dust into your eyes that we do something in the assembly as we participate, decide, return priorities and those important things to the agenda. Also, I want to say that the issue of protection of the citizen himself, the right to health care, and I'm not telling you this for no reason about the second degree of appeal or the like, is that to the one who has been denied it, the one who has denied someone the right to freedom and custody is personally responsible, beware that I speak in person, in the Constitution it writes that. He has no right to be taken out on a higher order, which means the headquarters has ordered, no, he's personally responsible if he acts that way. You, when you disable someone's constitutional right, the fundamental human right that is written here, which is that a solution must be issued, that a man may complain, that he may turn to the court, put it before us, if you need to change or if you need to limit some things. There comes a time in which we can expect new problems, a fire season, a preparation of who knows if they're going or not going. And it's not all about headquarters, nor is it all about numbers that will be said on the press. We can expect a much worse problem this summer, and if we say so, we welcome it unpreparedly. For this reason I invite you as a ministry to go into the activities that we really need, those legal solutions fast and efficient that should be here before us. Also, I have to say that on the matter of residence and residence, I will repeat once again, suspend the law, prevent electronics from being done electronically, do it in a way that, I don't know who made the decision, stop as a practice for reasons why someone might want to use the possibility of changing their residence or residence to go to their cottage. Look, we can't handle this. If it's written in the law, that's how it's supposed to apply. You can't deny it right. I'll just mention something about what we care about foreigners and people with a permanent stay, okay, but I'm curious if they'll be able to get into this situation right now from possibly their countries this season here if they had that paper. That's something that's very interesting. Will the one who has been issued and has been extended, not now in Croatia be able to come to Croatia regardless of what we have a restraining order? Will it go 12 days, 14 days into self-insulation? I'm not sure it's meant to be a solution at all, but well, we'll see. In my opinion, the next thing I know, I'm interested, and it's not a problem with these two laws, but I'm interested in how you're going to enable police officers and everyone else to work on the basis of the law so they don't get personally responsible tomorrow for certain activities they're having and we're letting go. My message is, it's not a question of sticking to the law, but it's a law-abiding first example of having to show the MUP, the Ministry of the Interior, its members, police officers. When we give it up, we no longer have the right to the state. Then we no longer have a situation if someone had a good intention of not training strictness and acting that way. That's the point of the story. First as an example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200396	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ostojić, so you have been talking here about the limitations of certain rights that have been taking place in parallel since this epidemic was declared and we in the SDP have been taking the lead all along and we believe that all restrictions should essentially bring this high home or Croatian Parliament 2/3 of the majority. However, we here have you yourself said, a series of laws that essentially fix the current, so far so I can say the failures in this government's procedures and essentially retroactively correct some things. What is in this law that practically only extends the period of extension of stay to foreigners is essentially not there, there are no real changes and decisions that should be, as they should be. And you know what I'm curious about, which I'd like to comment on maybe, two days ago, headquarters said they were a political body and they were making political decisions, and 10 days ago when we asked to make political decisions, they said they were a professional body. Now who's crazy here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200398	Dear Representative Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200399	In fact, we don't even know who's at headquarters because it's so hard to issue a solution or make a decision at the government that leading people of that headquarters are either falsely representing themselves or someone has no intention of actually keeping them there. Your question is first of all, I need to be encouraged by those who would like to deny the right to a solution. At this moment in Croatia there are between 15 and 20 thousand people in self-insulation or in limited areas of freedom of movement. Therefore, if someone did so and ordered someone to be, if the police knock on his door for it, a decision on self - isolation or a decision on quarantine must be issued regardless of what law it was. The minister last confirmed that it was crowded so they couldn't issue it. Mr. Andrija, not this virtual one, but Andrija Mikulić, the chief inspector who seals restaurants, that and his inspectors should be the ones who betray that solution. If the constitutional right to appeal is denied, it is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200400	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200401	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Ostojic, you are right that the legislative body has been put on the sidelines of many decisions that have been made, so counterpart Djujic rightly said that, but this is what the prime minister said the other day that politics is making decisions that the headquarters only gives legitimacy to as an expert body. So you rightly ask the question, what with all the people who can come to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of these legal changes to work and at the same time our citizens who have gone to other countries can't come back, because they too have to be quarantined for 14 days and that means they can't go back within reasonable time to work in those foreign countries. And these are the things we need to get an answer to today. Not only can the headquarters and the government act to react afterwards to events but it must plan something in advance, although I agree that the situation is unpredictable, but this is about families, it's about human destiny, and that is why we should bring quality solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200402	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200403	Dear colleague Sagar, how soon it will be and that we will get answers today, unfortunately, I'm sure we won't. In fact, it's about the question that we were supposed to wear a mask, 20. 4. Finally from Mr. Capak finds out that the mask is necessary. April 20th. So, at least a month after we asked a question or shouldn't, that's the answer we got. Everything else you said yourself, I'm just saying that the political body is the Parliament, the political body is the government, and the headquarters is an operational body that should implement the decisions of those laws that we have made here in the Parliament, both of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200404	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I join these assessments that my colleague Ostojić has given that we should discuss here the very important things that are on our agenda and solve the problems of citizens who have accumulated in the past month since the crisis and something more than create the impression that something is here in the Assembly, and the whole series of important topics is on the agenda and at the door. One of these topics is safe and the Earthquake Act, meaning when we talk about the police, about security in the city of Zagreb, today coming to the Croatian Parliament I was walking past a building where the noise was falling off, and unfortunately, Zagreb still acts as if it was not 30 days ago, but 30 minutes ago and I insist on this debate, I also filed a request from the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, it is 10, 15 days in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately chairing it not on the agenda and I am forced to warn on this at these sessions because Croatian citizens especially Zagreb and Zagreb citizens deserve to stand behind them and not to be, as the HDZ is now, protecting the Bandic mayor, covering his dissatisfaction and the whole chaos that took place in the city of Zagreb, and I hope that people will need to know that it, I am not in the interest to speak out here, that it is not in the interest to tell me that it is not to help but to help the President of the City of Zagreb, because it is expensive to the city, the people who are expensive and the city of Zagreb. And here I appeal once again to the Croatian Parliament's leadership to launch and to do something that will help Croatian citizens, so we have enough issues to solve in this assembly. On the other hand, I am using the opportunity here and I will warn the Government's representative of a confusion that they have caused with decisions that have prevented our citizens from going from the municipality to the municipality where simply for the past month people simply could not function nor control their property nor in any way have any normal life because many municipalities do not have the most basic infrastructure and there is a situation in the light of day where our territorial structure is totally unadjusted to the needs of the citizens or to the number of inhabitants we have. So, I think this is an opportunity to finally revise it and go into a more logical territorial structure and to try to return instead of 500 municipalities to 100 and some municipalities, to wonder at all what counties are serving, in what way they operate and to see that the biggest crisis we have actually had during this health pandemic in the entire Republic of Croatia is a situation which unfortunately is responsible for the County of Split-Dalmatia and Director of the House for Elderly and Powerless in Split, Mr. Škaričić, former HDZ representative and mayor of Omis, who is only there to be located somewhere in a function and shows itself essentially the county serves exclusively for the capture of party likes and it is not good and unfortunately we have a crisis situation there, people died and instead of being responsible to say already who is responsible for what happened in the Split House for the elderly and powerless, we are talking about foreigners here. This is Croatian citizens, believe me, not interested, but the responsibility of Škaricic, Mayor Boban and Prime Minister Plenkovic, for this reason, is of interest to Croatian citizens because there must be a responsibility for me already 10 people who unfortunately died in that home for the elderly and the powerless, or who were the protégés of that home for the elderly and the powerless. And on that side, let's see how to solve problems in the Republic of Croatia, not use this to promote some laws that are not important at all, or to listen to the praises here of the HOK and the HGK that we have heard from Mr. Uncle. Well, I don't think there are 1% of Croatian citizens here who support HOK and HGK as the HDZ does. Let's do a survey of people and see what people's reaction to these institutions is, or do they think they've done the right thing during this crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200406	Thank you very much. At your presentations which did not have much to do with the foreign law, however, we do have some replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when we talk about the Foreigners Act today, colleague Maras, as you yourself have said, we have today a technical law that essentially extends the deadline for requests for foreigners to stay in Croatia, and in fact we have a whole series of problems today that are current, which are worse in Croatia. So, you were talking about an earthquake, the earthquake was supposed to be resolved right before two and three weeks ago, as this law was supposed to be technically solved. Maybe it was activated. 17th and that the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the restriction of certain constitutional rights, but then, in that decision, it said, due to exceptional circumstances, all documents and all the permits that cease to apply are extended to 30 days until the end of the pandemic and could be resolved within 1 day. And not like this, we practically every two days have some laws to fictitiously look like we're involved in something and we're making some decisions, and they're basically technical laws. Until those burning problems and burning questions are essentially solved and don't come to this high house. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200408	Thank you. Now we have an answer. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200409	Thank you very much. I invite all MPs at HS when arriving at the meeting in HS to walk through the city of Zagreb and let them answer me afterwards if the earthquake in Zagreb was 30 days or 30 minutes ago. Because unfortunately, the city of Zagreb at this point looks like the earthquake was 30 minutes ago, and not 30 days ago and what is problematic, the problem is that with the non-transparent and incompetent administration no one from the state level is involved in the solution to the problem of our citizens who are today in Zagreb huge. Thousands and thousands of families have no gas connection today, 30 days after the earthquake. Non-transparency in the distribution of humanitarian aid means it's amazing that the mayor used 16.17 million kunas that have gathered humanitarian funds to non-transparently buy material from his related friends. So these are all the things we have to talk about here, unfortunately State not including but HDZ still [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Bandic's shoe. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200410	Next line, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200411	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. So national headquarters, county headquarters, municipal and city headquarters. There's no communication, I don't know why. There's been an opportunity for all of these today, all these months actually to establish communication, it's not. It has a very serious impact on citizens' health. All hospital exams have been interrupted, in health care homes. Primary health care has stopped. The city councils can't do anything about it. I don't know if he can county, and that's the question. If you ask doctors on the ground, starting with primary, hospital doctors, many will tell you that decisions have been made that were not good for the health of citizens. However, these doctors are afraid to go public because the minister has called anyone who opposes the Staff's decisions at the time, that it is the 5th column. These are very serious things, we're going to have large waiting lists, we're going to have major illnesses, an increase in cancers, all other dangerous diseases, and that's going to happen soon. The minister announced that now everything will be done to reduce the waiting lists, I'm afraid it won't be so simple to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200412	Thank you. Here's my colleague Maras, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200413	I think it's a particular problem that no one is currently dealing with in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately a lot of cancer patients are currently not getting treatment and being treated the way they should be treated because of the root of the crisis. We get people every day and they warn us not only not to be treated, but a lot of people are careful, especially sick people, not going to health institutions, and I suppose unfortunately we'll have big problems in the health system after the crisis, especially with people who are seriously sick. We should deal with this, we should take care of it now, more, believe me, much more than we should about whether someone is going to take a look at your cottage between one and the other municipalities. Unfortunately, Mr. Bozinovic on TV, instead of talking about how we're going to do our best... and all possible resources directed towards cancer patients to help them, he's still talking about whether anyone went to see their cottage [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or not. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200414	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Striker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200415	Comrade Maras, you have also touched the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia in your debate. Namely, it is desirable that one part of the municipalities, perhaps even the cities, should be abolished. Now, we often discuss demographic issues here in Parliament. Half of European countries, EU member states have problems with demographics, including us. The worst picture is right in those small communities and small municipalities. And now, do you think by connecting or eliminating these smaller municipalities and cities, the demographic image will improve? Will people in those small communities live better? Will big cities take better care of these small environments? Will those environments have kindergartens and whatever young families are interested in and what they need? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200416	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200417	Well, I have to admit that I'm really amazed by your replica and response because at this very moment again, this situation has shown a complete illogicality of the structure of our local administration and self-government. It's completely illogical. People, when the Staff pointed out the bans on crossing the municipality to the municipality, they couldn't get some to go to the post office, they couldn't go to the bank. They couldn't carry out their most basic needs of life, and now you're telling me it's in their best interests. So what's that in their interest? If someone in a municipality couldn't do what he needed to live, how can you even say that this community is sufficient and the need for that same citizen who lives there? Well, that's what people say. That's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying what people are saying, read the comments of people now, read the articles in the media. If now's not the time to see it, I don't know. when it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Absolutely. I think it would be a better quality of life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and these citizens in these municipalities to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Make a different design. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200418	We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Sasa Djujic's. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to look back at this law, so this is a technical law that basically extends the deadlines for submitting new applications for staying strangers. And here I really don't understand why we didn't discuss this law when we discussed that whole package of IDs, driver's licenses and all those documents that are essentially the same essence. Certain deadlines have been extended there, and a certain deadline is being extended here. So, I think this law at the debate in this high house comes with some month late because you could see this problem in the MUP when you saw IDs, driver's licenses, armed sheets and everything else, and when we were passing that package of laws means about 3-4 weeks ago, we could have brought this package too. So I really don't understand what the purpose of today's debate is except for this topic, so page, when we talk about foreigners today, if we stick to it strictly and only this law can we talk about 30 days of that extension. I say I see in this, in this topic one topic that will be imposed very quickly. So what's the main function of this law? And when we brought it in last year, ha stay of the residents, regulation of the residence of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, and one large part of this is about working force, which is, for example, deficitary in our country, mostly in the building and in terms of tourism. Now that we're looking at the economy, and we're looking at that tourism is, like, the most hit by the Coronal Virus epidemic, and basically this season is going to be what it's going to be like, then the question is, what's the interest in foreigners and foreign labour in the Republic of Croatia at all? So, over the past years, we've had tremendous pressure from the businessmen here by the wave of those from tourism to the government and the ministry to increase quotas, to allow more foreign nationals to stay in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that now in the coming period, not that there will be no need for it, but that the responsible government may, in preserving jobs in the Republic of Croatia, also be able to reduce those quotas because it's insane to have quotas as we did last year and to allow the stay of foreigners who will be a cheaper workforce than ours in Croatia, and we might have, perhaps, a larger part of the unemployed people in tourism that we already have, who were seasons and who would, for example, in normal conditions already for Easter started working, but given this situation they are not hired at all by their hotel companies, cafes and restaurants. So that's a subject that we should talk about, not whether we can have 30 days longer of time to file for approval, etc. The other thing is, that's why I wanted to draw attention to this problem when we talk about strangers. Another thing I join my colleagues in terms of cities and municipalities and territorial structure. Now I'm going to give you another example of why I think this kind of structure, or this kind of operating system in the Republic of Croatia, is pointless. So, we now have some kind of National Civil Protection Headquarters that prescribes certain measures and certain restrictions, we heard here two days ago that it is still a political body that makes political decisions along the lines of some kind of profession. So until five days ago it was some kind of professional body, and then we have county headquarters, so we have city and municipal headquarters. And then we have examples in the Republic of Croatia that city and municipal headquarters prescribe measures that are more rigorous than national headquarters. I'll say on the example of my county. Let's say the island of Losinj and the island of Rab. They practically banned the arrival of anyone who doesn't live on an island, anyone off the island, in a way that they said, anyone who doesn't have a place on our island and comes out must be 15 days in isolation. And I can very easily control it, let's say, the Rape navigation that's lying on the city's firm won't sell a ticket to anyone who doesn't have confirmation that he's been self-insulated on the island of Rab for 15 days. And at national level it's not, so from one municipality to another you can move normally along with an adequate pass. Now, I don't know if it's the right decision on the town of Rab or on the island of Losinj, but the fact is that they're doing it, and the national headquarters didn't write it down. We have an example in Losinj, so construction works are allowed by the decisions of the national headquarters, the builders can work, the man brought workers from Đakov to Lošinj, but because of local headquarters decisions they could not go out and work at all, or return home for 15 days. Now, what we need is a national headquarters, which will give us county services, which will give us locals if they run each one of their policies and that policy isn't even. Now that's what I'm asking you? So, since the MUP is the bearer of that, I'm running out of time so I don't get to discuss this anymore, but that's my question. What's the national headquarters gonna do, county And 580 locals if they don't, if they don't all stick to the same policy? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's the question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200420	We have two replicas, two replicas. We have a replica, colleague Maras, and nothing has been withdrawn, colleague Ostojić and colleague Bačić. My colleague Ostojić is the first, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200421	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have rightly noticed this situation that completely changes the essence of that law that was first here on the 19.3 agenda that we agreed on. The national headquarters, at that time, demanded a unique action, the reason for this law was to be a unique act. And now it turns out that the local headquarters who did this before are actually still running their policies the way they do. It's something that actually tells us about how true the national headquarters has been made in the way that it's been asked of us to all be together for that kind of action. I think that this variant just shows how missed the decisions are I don't know if it's a political or professional body, and I think it should be operational.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200422	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200423	So fellow Ostojic, as time goes by, and show this, shows the failures of these professional political, political and professional bodies, to miss the decisions they make. So I'm going to say it again for example. So, headquarters said moving inside the county without a pass. We have some counties that have made some regions within themselves again. I don't know if it's necessary or not, but I don't think that's exactly the usual situation if we have a pandemic situation that we're fighting like a state, that the state is saying one thing, that local headquarters are doing something else. Well, there was a problem when cities and municipalities wanted to join in on some logical principle, so then, they made decisions, and then the national headquarters said, "No, the city and municipal councils have to confirm it, so that the early that problem was then made a decision could all within the county. Now, I support the decision of city councils and municipal councils but we have one illogicality here too. Locally they must make decisions by city and municipal councils and at national level, for example, the Croatian Parliament does not have to make any decisions at all, but all can be made by the National Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200424	Thank you, thank you, fellow Djujic. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Ante Muffin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200425	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I disagree, you see that we talked a lot, at least we talked about the Foreign Law. When you mention cities and counties and municipalities, now we're going back to what we've been fighting so hard for decentralisation, we're going back to the centralised model again. It is not illogical for a local headquarters to implement its own policy, e.g. in Split-Dalmatia County we still have a ban on the island's path but there is everything in agreement with the National Staff. So I don't know why you're fighting to centralize everything again in one place, and another thesis why we're discussing these technical laws. What are we supposed to discuss here? We're discussing reports like this, laws like this, and if we stick to those thesis of you and certain colleagues, that means that Parliament doesn't have to work, we're going to leave it to the president, the Prime Minister, the Joint Chief, and we don't need to be around anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200426	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200427	Comrade Bacic, I'll start at the end. The Croatian Parliament should discuss the laws directed by the government of the Republic of Croatia in this House, it does not. So what he's doing, he's doing minimal or late. So until three weeks ago, we didn't have any government laws for a month. None, so we're discussing reports because there's nothing to discuss because the government doesn't send proposals into the procedure, that's the problem. And when we talk about decentralisation, decentralisation, why we don't have a whole policy but decisions of some sort of fictitious who's going to move, di won't, it's like decentralisation, and fiscal, then we're centralised. So the government gives economic measures to entrepreneurs at the expense of cities and municipalities, so it takes their income tax and they remain without their resources. Is that decentralisation on HDZ? So give them the money and then we'll talk about decentralisation. And that's where we're talking about the government has helped the economy, but 30% of these help comes from cities and municipalities, so 30% of the funds to entrepreneurs in the city of Rijeka was given by Vojko Obersnel, And not Andrej Plenkovic, [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] It's decentralisation. [[Intruder Hajdas Doncic: Thank you, fellow Djujic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200428	Thank you. We now have two final discussions on behalf of the club of MPs, the first colleague of Ostojić, the SDP representative club final, followed by counterpart Miro Bulj, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, final. Here you go, colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200429	I would like to thank the Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we've got two laws very similar again and they have the same thing and it's an extension of the duration. Afterwards we will return for this reason again stone age, there will be no progress, and that is to go into electronic advancement even though here we have shown that every real Croat who holds on to himself has a pass and issued 950,000 in the Republic of Croatia for free movement. Therefore, the moment we come to the situation that the MUP is giving up to be an example of how it behaves by law, and I am saying that in the case of residence and residence or variants where the possibilities are suspended that what you were able to do before electronic gain are no longer possible, it is an independent decision and I claim that it is counter-constitutional. Art. 16 and 17. The Republic of Croatia says that freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect other people's freedoms and rights, public and moral health. Right, but it's not the headquarters that can replace the Parliament. It is not the headquarters of a national place where such decisions or laws or laws can be invented, which could restrict one’s right to free movement under the law. For this reason, insisting on a solution, that people can complain is something that I think is quite normal, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and will show whether I was right about limiting freedom without a solution and constitutional right to appeal. At that time, Mr. Andrija Mikulić's behaviour would not have happened either, it would not have actually happened that the body that is here now may be the best name of a professional political body, meaning a professional political body to make a decision to freeze the health system of the Republic of Croatia and that other diseases are going to wait. I can't justify it, the life-threatening citizens are expecting it at this point and the SDP has, as usual, made constructive proposals in which to get out of this situation and the same way as for the economic measures that would be necessary to normalise the situation as much as possible. I'll repeat again, unity yes, but not in silence over missed moves. Especially not about illegal measures. You remember what we were saying about passes, we were talking about too many zones, we were talking about absurdities that happen that a man has to go to another town to look for a pass, let's say, Vis and Komiza, to get to a pointy apartment in Komiza. The islands themselves are isolated. The independent decisions taken at the moment as regards municipalities and cities were the reason why we changed the Civil Protection Staff Act at national level, making an amendment to that law precisely in order not to happen that we do not have a uniform treatment or that one place is centrally managed by this crisis. So today we talk about that there were no illogical moves, that there were no situations where there were completely guilty of me and absurd situations that eventually we got a variant that some were illegally using mountain roads to get to a store or something like that, all this together tells us that people in the professional political headquarters actually played a game. You can't use more than the law says. The Croatian Parliament at this time until war is not a situation in which we cannot work, while we have an epidemic ok, but there is no one right to suspend the most legislative body to meet, to work and function as everyone else does. I think it's very important that we not suspend our own acts in this assembly and try to adapt to this situation. I can understand that, time has already gone long enough for us to get back to normal at least work in this legislative, highest legislative body, so we may have fewer failures because I will repeat it once more, people are not numbers, people are both our citizens and their restriction of freedom must have a foothold both in law and those who apply the law can do so only on the basis of legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200430	Thank you, too. We now have a colleague, Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Finally, and a colleague, Bačić, has also signed up, so later, as he can, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200431	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government and Croatian citizens. We see that we are discussing a law that could have been passed before about foreigners, which could have been passed through the decisions of the headquarters, and many are making the headquarters not legally, but it is generally accepted that this assembly simply has to serve the majority and raise its hands. But I'd say here that I'm expecting answers, I see that the secretary of state hasn't called, what about the migrants? Speaking of foreigners, why doesn't anyone mention migrants and whether migrants are entering the Republic of Croatia illegally and have you tested them? That's what citizens are interested in, mostly in the border area. That's not a word. That's the key question. We've exhausted everything around strangers. God forbid we care so much about the people who have moved, Croatian citizens to other countries because of the bad policies in agriculture, because of the bad fisheries policies, because of the bad policies in the economy, because of the bad policies of the Executive Law, because of everything that God Petrov will now talk about behind this on the 9 proposals of the legal ones that we have made. To talk about banks, he'll give us a moratorium on loans. When are we gonna talk about this? And I ask you secretaries, at least answer here to the citizens, what about the migrants, do the migrants enter the Republic of Croatia, and of what they have entered, and they are entering, how many have you tested from the Coronavirus since you took certain freedoms from Croatian citizens, what about the migrants and what about our evicted Croats in other countries, what is being taken from the government of the Republic of Croatia? I'd say here in the end it was mentioned here while we're talking about essential laws, we'll talk back on MOST's proposals. I would mention here that even in this serious situation even today to continue sharing in society when everyone is calling for community in Jasenovac at a memorial literally divides the Croatian people. I must once again condemn the statement of the president of the Republic of Croatia which is on the trail of what Andrej Plenkovic did and the cartoonist coalition together with HNS and Pupovac, where he said that the Hos board was thrown, removed and thrown. I mean, I'm asking him to apologize to all those Hos, mostly the dead families and mothers of my comrades who were from Vukovar, from my Ivica Poljak Sokol to the recently found Redkap to Dubrovnik, the Hos's defended in the most difficult battlefields of the Croatian state in the Homeland War. And use this opportunity now when the Council of Europe invites us to condemn all totalitarian regimes, communist, Nazi and fascist, to react in this way. This is how she should react, in fact, is now the successor of the politics of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, Andreja Plenkovic to Croatian defenders and in this case Zoran Milanovic, who is a disgraceful statement that the triba is stripping and throwing plates from the Croatian Defence Forces, while at the same time Chetnic monuments are still there, such as Sljevcanin, who slaughtered and burned over Vukovar and called for the rebellion of the distinguished representative of the government. When are you going to take down the Chetnik monuments and throw them away? From the butcher and the Chetnik. At this time, they are not good divisions, they are not good divisions, but that the prime minister and president give such statements to victims when all victims are to be honored, I expected that there would be a minimum end to the statement by Nenad Stazic, who said it was '45. It is not that the winner did not finish his job, that he was not killed enough and slaughtered enough Croats. Now that we have this crisis, when we have a scattered economy, when agriculture is destroyed, when the IGP has not been declared, we have not preserved our sea, when we do not have the strength. There's no government of power, there's no bank, there's no moratorium on loans and interest. At the same time, such shameful statements to those who created the foundations of the Croatian state are members of the police, HV and Hos.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200432	Thank you. Thank you. Here's a little intervention, and after that, my colleague Bačić, finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200433	Thank you, Vice President. I see there's a little bit of passion, we're slowly going back to Ustashas and partisans, which means the system is normalized in the Republic, that's good. We've been wandering around here a lot in the debates, so here's the final, just a little bit to get back on the subject, to get back to these two laws on a united debate. Foreign law and the Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. We have mentioned and we have opened a series of topics that I believe here that the secretary of state may also look back at it in its final address and on the very quotas related to the employment of foreigners, we must stress that this is not just some technicality, that this is not just a technical law, technical nature, however, it is 70 000 people, regardless of what these foreigners are, they are in the Republic, they are probably working here or schooling, and here we are looking at individual universities, and we have a lot of students who stayed in the Republic, in some way stuck here at the time of the pandemic, but I think they are not sick and that our universities and colleges and colleges are doing a lot of work to make everyone feel comfortable and to carry out their duties regardless of what they are not in their home countries. The issue of mutuality has also opened up, I hope, we are definitely a state that has strong sensitivity and for the sake of our diaspora probably also because of our history towards foreigners, we also know our relationship and all the rights that here are minorities starting here in the Croatian Parliament and beyond our laws and our constitutional laws, so that I believe and hope we will also see through this diplomatic network of individual ministries, that we will work precisely on this reciprocity and that our citizens who are currently in certain countries around the world will have equal or similar and hopefully even better treatment than what foreigners have in the Republic. As far as the seasonal workers themselves are concerned, here we have opened the topic and the nautics and the citizens, foreign citizens who own property, which are located in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe tomorrow and that we will watch the session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because here are the many issues that have opened here, we will receive tomorrow a response to both hospitality and agriculture and all the activities they suffer for this pandemic so that I believe that it is the nautics, tourism and accommodation itself, and precisely these foreign citizens who have real estate and mobility in the Republic, that it will be this first wave where we will feel and save how much tourist season that is ahead of us can be saved. We have to stress it, and we have to point out well, through this law, there may be no direct intention through but it is important to highlight, here and all the measures taken by the MUP, but also foreign affairs and general government, we all follow through the media that the government is referring to our citizens who are here mentioned through a series of debates, our citizens who are currently stuck or doing business or for any of their activities abroad, I know personally how much it is working with our neighbouring and friendly and EU countries right now, to buy our citizens and bring them to the Republic of Croatia, and I just have to point out for the end one important segment, and these are our sailors. We know just how much seamen contribute to tourism and GDP but also employment and tax taxes and everything related to Croatia, especially in Dalmatia, these people are in Croatia today, slowly that shipping is returning, they are moving on their ships, and they need to make it as easy as possible for them to make it easier for the MUP together with the Civil Protection Staff to get out of the country, so that they can easily board their ships and easily return to all normal, measures if they need isolation and any others, but that they continue to do their jobs because we normally know that it is the only type and method of income for the seamen. All in all, I don't think this is just technical nature and this shows that the Croatian Parliament works regularly and that the Croatian state does Thank you. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200434	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the final draft law supplementing the Foreign Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 926 and Final draft law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 927, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200435	Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their family, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 927. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs, 116 for and 1 abstentions and 2 against and most votes have been passed the Law supplementing the Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200436	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200437	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200438	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200440	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200441	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200442	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200443	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200444	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200445	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200446	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200447	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200448	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200450	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200451	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200452	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200453	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200454	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200455	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200456	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200457	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200458	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200459	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200460	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200461	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200462	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200463	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200464	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200465	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200466	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200467	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200468	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200469	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200470	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200471	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200472	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200473	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200474	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200475	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200476	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200477	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200478	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200479	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200480	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200481	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200482	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200483	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200484	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200485	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200486	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200487	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200488	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200489	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200490	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200491	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200492	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200493	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200494	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200495	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200496	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200497	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200498	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200499	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200500	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200501	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200502	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200503	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200504	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200505	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200506	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200507	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200508	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200509	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200510	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200511	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200512	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200513	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200514	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200515	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200516	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200517	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200518	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200519	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200520	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200521	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200522	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200523	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200524	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200525	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200526	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200527	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200528	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200529	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200530	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200531	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200532	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200533	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200534	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200535	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200536	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200537	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200538	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200539	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200541	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200542	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200543	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200545	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200546	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200547	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200548	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200549	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200550	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200551	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200552	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200553	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200555	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200556	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200557	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200558	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200559	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200560	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200561	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200563	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200564	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200565	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200567	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200568	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200569	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200570	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200571	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200572	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200573	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200575	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200577	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200578	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200579	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200580	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200581	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200582	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200583	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200584	Final proposal of the Act on Supplements to the Executive Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 915. The promoter is Mr. Bozo Petrov. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposal didn't get enough votes, the law wasn't passed, 35 was for and 77 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200585	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200586	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200587	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200589	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200590	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200591	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200592	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200593	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200594	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200595	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200596	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200597	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200599	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200600	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200601	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200602	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200603	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200604	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200605	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200606	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200607	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200608	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200609	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200610	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200611	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200612	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200613	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200614	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200615	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200616	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200617	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200618	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200619	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200620	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200621	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200622	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200623	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200624	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200625	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200626	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200627	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200628	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200629	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200630	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200631	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200632	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200633	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200634	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200635	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200636	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200637	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200638	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200639	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200640	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200641	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200642	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200643	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200644	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200645	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200646	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200647	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200648	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200649	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200650	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200651	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200652	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200653	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200654	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200655	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200656	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200657	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200658	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200659	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200660	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200661	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200662	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200663	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200664	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200665	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200666	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200667	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200668	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200669	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200670	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200671	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200672	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200673	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200674	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200675	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200676	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200677	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200678	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200679	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200680	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200681	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200682	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200683	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200684	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200685	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200686	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200687	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200688	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200690	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200691	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200692	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200694	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200695	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200696	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200697	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200698	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200699	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200700	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200701	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200702	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200704	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200705	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200706	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200707	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200708	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200709	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200710	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200712	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200713	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200714	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200716	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200717	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200718	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200719	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200720	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200721	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200722	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200724	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200726	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200727	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200728	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200729	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200730	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200731	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200732	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200733	Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 908. The proposal is again represented by Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposal has not received enough votes, so the law has not been passed, 34 for and 77 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200734	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200735	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200736	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200738	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200739	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200740	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200741	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200742	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200743	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200744	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200745	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200746	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200748	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200749	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200750	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200751	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200752	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200753	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200754	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200755	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200756	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200757	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200758	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200759	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200760	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200761	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200762	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200763	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200764	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200765	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200766	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200767	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200768	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200769	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200770	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200771	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200772	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200773	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200774	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200775	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200776	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200777	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200778	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200779	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200780	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200781	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200782	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200783	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200784	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200785	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200786	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200787	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200788	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200789	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200790	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200791	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200792	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200793	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200794	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200795	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200796	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200797	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200798	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200799	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200800	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200801	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200802	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200803	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200804	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200805	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200806	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200807	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200808	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200809	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200810	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200811	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200812	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200813	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200814	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200815	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200816	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200817	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200818	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200819	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200820	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200821	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200822	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200823	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200824	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200825	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200826	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200827	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200828	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200829	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200830	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200831	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200832	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200833	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200834	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200835	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200836	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200837	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200839	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200840	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200841	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200843	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200844	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200845	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200846	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200847	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200848	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200849	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200850	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200851	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200853	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200854	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200855	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200856	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200857	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200858	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200859	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200860	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200861	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200862	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200863	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200865	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200866	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200867	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200868	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200869	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200870	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200871	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200873	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200875	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200876	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200877	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200878	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200879	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200880	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200881	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200882	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 909. The promoter is Mr. Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Law, which the Government does not support. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The proposal didn't get enough votes, the law wasn't passed, so 34 was in favour, 77 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200883	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200884	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200885	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200887	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200888	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200889	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200890	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200891	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200892	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200893	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200894	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200895	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200897	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200898	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200899	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200900	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200901	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200902	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200903	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200904	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200905	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200906	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200907	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200908	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200909	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200910	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200911	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200912	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200913	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200914	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200915	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200916	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200917	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200918	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200919	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200920	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200921	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200922	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200923	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200924	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200925	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200926	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200927	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200928	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200929	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200930	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200931	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200932	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200933	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200934	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200935	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200936	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200937	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200938	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200939	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200940	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200941	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200942	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200943	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200944	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200945	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200946	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200947	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200948	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200949	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200950	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200951	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200952	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200953	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200954	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200955	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200956	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200957	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200958	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200959	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200960	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200961	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200962	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200963	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200964	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200965	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200966	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200967	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200968	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200969	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200970	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200971	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200972	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200973	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200974	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200975	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200976	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200977	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200978	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200979	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200980	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200981	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200982	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200983	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200984	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200985	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200986	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200988	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200989	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200990	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200992	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200993	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200994	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200995	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200996	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200997	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200998	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u200999	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201000	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201002	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201003	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201004	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201005	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201006	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201007	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201008	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201010	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201011	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201012	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201014	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201015	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201016	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201017	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201018	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201019	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201020	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201022	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201024	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201025	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201026	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201027	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201028	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201029	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201030	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201031	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 910. The promoter is Mr. Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act, which the Government does not support. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal did not get enough votes, 33 were for, 77 against, so the law was not passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201032	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201033	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201034	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201036	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201037	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201038	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201039	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201040	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201041	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201042	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201043	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201044	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201046	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201047	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201048	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201049	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201050	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201051	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201052	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201053	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201054	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201055	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201056	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201057	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201058	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201059	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201060	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201061	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201062	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201063	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201064	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201065	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201066	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201067	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201068	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201069	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201070	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201071	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201072	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201073	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201074	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201075	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201076	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201077	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201078	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201079	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201080	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201081	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201082	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201083	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201084	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201085	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201086	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201087	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201088	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201089	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201090	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201091	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201092	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201093	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201094	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201095	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201096	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201097	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201098	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201099	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201100	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201101	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201102	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201103	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201104	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201105	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201106	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201107	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201108	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201109	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201110	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201111	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201112	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201113	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201114	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201115	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201116	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201117	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201118	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201119	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201120	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201121	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201122	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201123	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201124	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201125	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201126	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201127	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201128	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201129	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201130	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201131	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201132	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201133	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201134	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201135	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201137	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201138	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201139	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201141	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201142	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201143	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201144	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201145	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201146	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201147	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201148	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201149	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201151	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201152	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201153	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201154	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201155	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201156	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201157	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201159	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201160	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201161	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201163	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201164	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201165	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201166	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201167	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201168	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201169	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201171	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201173	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201174	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201175	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201176	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201177	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201178	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201179	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201180	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on value added tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 911 number. The promoter is Mr. Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the law has not received enough votes, 34 for and 75 against, so the law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201181	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201182	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201183	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201185	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201186	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201187	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201188	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201189	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201190	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201191	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201192	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201193	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201195	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201196	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201197	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201198	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201199	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201200	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201201	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201202	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201203	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201204	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201205	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201206	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201207	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201208	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201209	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201210	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201211	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201212	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201213	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201214	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201215	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201216	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201217	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201218	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201219	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201220	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201221	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201222	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201223	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201224	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201225	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201226	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201227	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201228	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201229	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201230	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201231	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201232	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201233	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201234	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201235	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201236	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201237	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201238	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201239	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201240	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201241	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201242	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201243	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201244	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201245	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201246	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201247	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201248	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201249	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201250	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201251	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201252	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201253	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201254	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201255	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201256	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201257	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201258	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201259	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201260	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201261	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201262	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201263	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201264	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201265	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201266	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201267	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201268	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201269	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201270	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201271	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201272	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201273	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201274	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201275	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201276	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201277	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201278	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201279	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201280	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201281	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201282	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201283	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201284	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201286	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201287	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201288	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201290	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201291	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201292	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201293	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201294	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201295	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201296	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201297	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201298	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201300	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201301	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201302	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201303	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201304	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201305	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201306	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201308	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201309	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201310	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201312	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201313	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201314	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201315	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201316	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201317	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201318	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201320	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201322	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201323	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201324	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201325	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201326	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201327	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201328	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201329	Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 912. The promoter is Mr. Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal has not received enough votes, 36 for, 76 against, so the law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201330	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201331	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201332	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201334	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201335	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201336	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201337	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201338	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201339	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201340	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201341	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201342	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201344	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201345	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201346	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201347	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201348	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201349	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201350	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201351	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201352	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201353	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201354	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201355	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201356	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201357	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201358	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201359	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201360	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201361	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201362	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201363	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201364	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201365	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201366	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201367	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201368	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201369	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201370	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201371	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201372	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201373	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201374	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201375	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201376	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201377	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201378	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201379	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201380	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201381	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201382	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201383	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201384	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201385	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201386	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201387	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201388	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201389	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201390	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201391	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201392	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201393	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201394	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201395	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201396	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201397	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201398	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201399	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201400	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201401	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201402	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201403	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201404	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201405	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201406	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201407	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201408	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201409	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201410	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201411	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201412	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201413	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201414	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201415	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201416	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201417	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201418	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201419	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201420	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201421	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201422	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201423	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201424	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201425	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201426	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201427	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201428	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201429	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201430	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201431	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201432	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201433	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201435	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201436	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201437	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201439	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201440	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201441	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201442	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201443	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201444	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201445	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201446	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201447	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201449	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201450	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201451	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201452	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201453	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201454	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201455	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201457	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201458	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201459	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201461	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201462	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201463	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201464	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201465	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201466	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201467	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201469	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201471	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201472	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201473	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201474	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201475	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201476	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201477	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201478	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 913. The proposal is again represented by Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal has not received enough votes, 35 were for and 1 abstention, 75 against, so the law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201479	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201480	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201481	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201483	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201484	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201485	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201486	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201487	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201488	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201489	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201490	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201491	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201493	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201494	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201495	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201496	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201497	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201498	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201499	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201500	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201501	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201502	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201503	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201504	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201505	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201506	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201507	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201508	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201509	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201510	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201511	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201512	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201513	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201514	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201515	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201516	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201517	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201518	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201519	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201520	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201521	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201522	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201523	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201524	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201525	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201526	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201527	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201528	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201529	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201530	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201531	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201532	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201533	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201534	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201535	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201536	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201537	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201538	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201539	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201540	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201541	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201542	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201543	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201544	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201545	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201546	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201547	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201548	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201549	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201550	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201551	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201552	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201553	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201554	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201555	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201556	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201557	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201558	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201559	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201560	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201561	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201562	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201563	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201564	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201565	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201566	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201567	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201568	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201569	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201570	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201571	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201572	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201573	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201574	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201575	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201576	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201577	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201578	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201579	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201580	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201581	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201582	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201584	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201585	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201586	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201588	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201589	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201590	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201591	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201592	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201593	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201594	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201595	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201596	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201598	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201599	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201600	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201601	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201602	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201603	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201604	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201606	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201607	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201608	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201610	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201611	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201612	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201613	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201614	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201615	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201616	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201618	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201620	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201621	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201622	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201623	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201624	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201625	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201626	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201627	Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 914. The promoter is Mr. Bozo Petrov. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which the Government does not support. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal has not received a sufficient number of 35 votes for, 1 abstention and 75 against and the law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201628	We now move to a united debate in the following 9 points, of which 8 legal proposals are proposed by the legislator God Petrov, and one proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, so these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Executive Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 - Final proposal of the Law amending the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 908 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911 - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 - Final draft law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 - Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 and - Proposal for a conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during COVID-19 disease Proposers are representatives of Bozo Petrov on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists under Article 204 Paragraph 172.2. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that all legislative proposals should be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Tourism, for the Family, Youth and Sports, for the Economy, for Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here is a set of legislative proposals, colleague Bozo Petrova for the proposal for a conclusion, others... Here you go, buddy Petrov. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201629	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that at least with a delay, we can show what we are all about, what we have proposed, what amendments we have made to the law to make our contribution to countering the consequences of this crisis that has affected our country and this epidemic. I say with a delay, because we have directed our laws, there are several weeks and from the very beginning of the crisis we have proposed certain measures. You can also see that quite a number of measures we have proposed since the first day are already being consumed because the government has adopted them in the meantime. Unfortunately, it has not adopted fully certain measures, which have been taken in half, on the other hand, a helmet with certain decisions for two to three weeks, and we are wasting precious time. One of the measures we proposed was the law relating to the performance, unfortunately later I'll show you, and that's where the government brought all the blocked and executed only half the solution. What should be singled out before we go about all the measures that MOST's actions are related to, not only to this period of the duration of the epidemic, but also to that period after the crisis, because it is up to us alone to how long the consequences of this crisis will last. If in time, if we act quickly, effectively then the economy will return faster and the only salvation for all people who are at risk today, especially financially threatened is the rapid recovery of the economy, jobs so that they have a way to earn for their families not to end up in poverty. Our measures are also going to change the paradigm. That's the word we've heard in the last month, two days very often from the government. We still don't have quality confirmation, objective confirmation, proof that it's more than just a syntagma for them. We could see that the paradigm had not changed, and on the occasion of the day when the State Inspectorate found alleged illegalities in the action of the caterer, he better closed them down, then broke them with a financial penalty, and all because there are numerous interpretations of the provisions and measures issued in the “National Journals” issued by the headquarters, and in fact those measures that are given are not accurate, they are not as clear as they should then appear both the HGK and the tourism ministries, these, they lead to public health for no reason whatsoever. Unfortunately, we don't have the rule of law in that case, we don't have legal certainty to suffer exactly those who should be the backbone of our economy, and those who are probably in the mental context of the same, not for the last 30 years, but for the last 80 years, are more likely to rush into the field to get these fines right. And then the government's been talking about changing the paradigm for the last two months. I'd invite them to really show it in part, I'd ask them to take the measures they've taken to avoid being temporary, then it's a paradigm change. The measures proposed by MOST in the last month to two days were, among other things, an amendment to the Implementing Law, an amendment to the General Tax Code, a change in profit tax, a change in income tax, an amendment to the VAT Act, a abolition of parafiscal duties, etc., etc. But what's crucial to some of these measures, we don't think it should be temporary they should be permanent. At the moment you go to change the VAT Act and change it in a way that finally the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the self-employed person must pay the VAT only when they paid him for his product, and then it's a change of paradigm, and then that's the way we in MOST think that the final state should start treating every citizen in this country and every entrepreneur in this country. And that's how the state doesn't see them as sheep for a haircut or as those objects they're going to experience but to see them as partners. We want that law, that law change, the regulation they made to pay VAT not to be temporary but to be permanent. You have no right to be in the first order of charge, you have no right to rob every employee in the country who contributes to you, who feeds you, and if you don't care if he later manages to collect what he has produced or ended up in bankruptcy. And what's crucial is how you don't see that the moment you make these measures permanent that you're going to reduce the gray economy zone. So I think absolutely everyone knows that today's entrepreneurs are just afraid they won't be able to charge their products not to give you invoices, that the state is behind them, that the state says that the account is a thorough document, that it has to be charged, that the state says we will pay VAT when you charge your product when you know that entrepreneurs and self-employed craftsmen are all insured, and you will automatically reduce the gray economy. You're going to show that solidarity, that's another word, another term that we've been hearing for the past two months, you're going to show that you understand these people that they're not sheep for your haircut. That they're not just here to provide you with money that you'll pay for all your assets from state, county to local level. In just the last four years, tens of thousands of new employees in public and state administration. Interestingly, half a million people have moved out in the last five years, only in our country happens absurd. We have fewer people in the state and more employees in the state administration. And nobody's talking about absurdity but just the ones that do you even during the crisis, you better get on the ground and punish them. Not only to close them, but to hit a financial penalty. It's not a paradigm change, go from word to deed. Change the paradigms, but in the right way. Also, the MOST has asked to abolish the payment of the advance, advance on profits. So is it normal for all those who are employed, who pay taxes today according to what they did, before paying it in advance, to lend it to the state. Well, it's not normal and it also needs to be introduced and it needs to be permanent. It's not correct, it's not solid, it's not a paradigm change, however you want, whatever terms you want in the last two months that you put into your vocabulary, use, it doesn't fit. Delete the profit tax advance. Take off your dividend tax and your share of the profits. We had a chance to discuss the Executive Law a few days ago, or the proposal for a law given by the Government. Interesting. The government has decided to amend the executive law, but in a way that does not cover all ways or entities. So we asked that the executive law, and we were proposing this before the government sent its proposal, we asked for a delay in all the executions during the duration of the epidemic. The government has delayed the executions for three months, not all of them. She's delayed her accounts. Do you forget that there are duties on movables and real estate? Do you realize that no one has stopped the real estate business yet? In addition, you told FINA that FINA had no right to carry out accounts, but you did not tell the Pension Insurance Office that it did not carry out the same tasks on the pensioners' accounts. You did not order entrepreneurs, employers to conduct, not to carry out the duties on their employees. I'm not just saying to criticize you, my bile talk is because you either don't hear or you don't want to hear it. From the first day, from the moment you came out here with the measures, I was the first on speaker after the finance minister, after the Prime Minister and told you, you're offering a postponement, and I'm telling you write-off. You're offering cheaper loans, and I'm telling you grants. And of course my speech will be bile because you can't hear. You didn't even do it. You've written off as many of them, you've delayed everyone, so you haven't done the same thing to everyone. The write-off of the dues, not the delay. And not just during the epidemic, but 90 days later. Why? Because to let absolutely everything in Croatia today, to make the epidemic go away like this, to make the coronary virus go away like this, people have nowhere to go back. So it's not enough just during the epidemic, you need to give time to the economy to get back to what it was. But I'll talk about that crumb later. Also, we have in this set of laws, and even before in the measures we have told you, instructed that we should abolish the payment of the flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism. You still believe there's gonna be a tourist season? And I don't understand what kind of flat tax they still pay? Well, my people, these people are in charge, they've taken loans, they've contributed to this society and to themselves, but also to you. They feed you. You still forget them, that main economic branch of yours, I think it should be 4.5 in Croatia, but because of your policies, you turned tourism into the only economic branch, almost the only one in Croatia, and now you forget about them. Who's left, who's alive, who's dead. You did take credit, your concern. Do you have to pay your flat tax, your concern, that you have nothing to pay from, that you don't have clients, you don't have tourists, we don't care. Well, you couldn't care less. But I'm telling you this, it's been a month. And you can change all that, you can still change it. We also said that membership fees for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. My people, HGK briefly, 168 million kuna budget minimum 90 percent of it comes from membership fees, and out of 168 million kuna, kill me if at least 50% doesn't go to their salary. Another three-way system we're paying for. To the tourist boards of membership, what are companies going to pay for today to the tourist communities? What will the tourist communities do in the next month, two days? There's half a billion kuna in there. So to take just these two membership fees, that's 700 million kunas that you need to bring back to people who are barely able to put an end to the end today, which because of what happened to them, not their guilt, are left without a job and have no opportunity to do for our society, for your state, county, local budget. Also, we asked to amend the laws on maternity, parental benefits, we also asked for the removal of parafiscal intrusions in I will also say a few interesting figures. You handle with a number of nearly 400 parafiscal loads, of these 400 parafiscal loads 20 is large, and of these 20 large, these 20 large ones brings you to your budget of 12 billion kuna. But I don't hear from the government that they're doing anything, they're announcing that they're going to do something, they're announcing territorial reconstruction, they're announcing whatever we want, we're not going to, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. I would advise you to, in the style of what you've been leading for the last four years, make a committee to deal with parafiscal intrusions, that would be appropriate if I were to be sarcastic and then advise what you're going to do with parafiscal intrusions, but my situation is not normal, for me this situation requires urgent, effective action, no commissions, no dilemmas we will-not but logic. This situation requires you to start cutting yourself up, not to talk about territorial reconstruction, start doing it. I'm going to give you again the amount of imbalance between what you're saying and what you're doing. In 2018 you launched a project on the optimization of the public administration worth 20 million kuna, its time is running out now at the end of this year. You came to the point that you didn't do anything, you didn't even refer him to a public debate. These are works, and I ask you to move from word to deed because when you talk about savings I don't want to hear you talk about that until you cut yourself off from the salaries of healthcare professionals, educational staff and others. No, you have no right to do that. You have a complete mess in your 500s and some municipalities, 20 counties, 1300 state-owned companies and a bunch of arrests. And I'm sorry to call them that. Every honor to people who do a fair and conscientious job in the state and public administration, there are, but brother, there are also those you put in there who do absolutely nothing, and in the end, it's a crisis that has shown you. Do an analysis of how many people in the state and public administration are standing at home today doing reduced intensity or doing nothing at all. Interestingly, the state works faster. There's no ton of paper, no press, no printing, no waiting in line, all that stuff you said you couldn't do for years to need analysis, no commission, all that in a few days because it burned to your fingertips, so you can. I'm asking you to start doing that. And in addition to the Implementing Law, I will only return briefly because unfortunately I lack time, for the Implementing Law the Government has promised to amend the Implementing Law sent to third reading. The way he was in the second reading, it's better if you don't bring him in. But if you really want help, if those aren't words, just words, but also deeds, bring the Executive Law, but a real executive law that will be fair to all. And a major measure finally calls for reason and commit the banks to make a moratorium on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. They have nothing to return from right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201630	Thank you, fellow Petrov. So we have two reported breaks, we have seven replicas, but first we're gonna take a break. So they reported a colleague of the Grbin and counterpart Zekanovic. First, he's a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a period of 10 minutes, so that they can again manifest themselves and highlight the problem created by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So last Friday, HS adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the budget of our citizens and thus a good part of the Republic of Croatia has been unblocked. However, a large number of citizens this week were reluctantly surprised. They were surprised that their accounts continued to be carried out, and these were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not carried out by FINA, but were carried out by their employer or the Pension Insurance Office. In this case, some one-third of the perpetrators are estimated to be involved in the performance of salaries or other financial assets. An executive whose hope was given, and then after the weekend, they experienced bitter disappointment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fourth month has been lost, the salaries have already been largely paid, largely carried out, but respected colleagues and colleagues, and here I am particularly speaking to a representative of the government who is from the relevant Ministry of Justice. Count yourself together and or accept one of the opposition laws, such as that of the SDP that solves this matter completely or refer your proposal to the law. Do not let those who are not covered by the measure we brought to the Assembly last Friday be punished and in May, when you were not ready to help the judiciary as a whole, at least help the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201632	Thank you, here's my colleague, Zekanovic, a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201633	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this package of laws. Here we must highlight one current situation, and it is related to the statement by our President Zoran Milanovic, today in Jasenovac, who said that anyone who fought under "For Home Ready" in 1991 was fighting not only for Croatia, but also for the restoration of NDH. So, Antun Petričić, Marko Knezevic, Zarko Manjkas-Redkapa, people with Hos marks and "For a home ready" to die so that today Zoran Milanovic would be president, fought for Croatia, a free, sovereign and democratic state, and today he who is not ready for home can be called communist and fascist because the only thing we need to be today is to be ready for home, as were those who gave their lives for the Croatian state. And that's where we have to be clear. So this is an extremely scandalous statement on the trail of what President Milanovic had said and worked before, but here I must stress that the other problem is also very big, which he said and says in the presence of the prime minister, namely the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who listens and does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201634	So this has nothing to do with the break, so I'm giving you a heads-up. We're continuing our colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201635	Thank you, Vice President HS. On behalf of the HSU Club, New Politics, SNAGA and Independent Representatives, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reconsider this situation, which has been ruled out by the Government's measures to interrupt citizens by a large number of pensioners, as HZMO also stressed by counterpart Peja Grbin. However, if we were to extend the matter, as a colleague in the opening statement, Petrov, in the opening statement, many of all measures should normally be implemented, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia, and especially in those cases where they were guarantees, where the debtor died, these pensioners were punished to death, even though there is no death penalty in Croatia. So, they have to pay that debt because at one point in their life, perhaps recklessly, perhaps for some other reason, they have entered into such a relationship, and they have to pay debt on that loan until their death. It is clear from this large part that the banks are standing and I think that the government in that part has no power to calculate, there is no power to tell the banks that it is not appropriate, that people do not have to pay the debts that have been incurred for the rest of their lives, and unfortunately because of the death of the debtors could not be charged. And that's one reason we're looking for a break, so that these situations can be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201636	Thank you, too. And the last request for a break, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201637	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Voice for 10 minutes. It's about having another set of laws that suggested opposition again today. We're in a very strange time. The characteristics of these times are as follows, when we get a proposal from the ruling ones, we generally, regardless of the proposal, discuss, discuss, but aware of the situation, it is the opposition that, in the main cases, votes for these proposals and realizes that it must react immediately. Changes that HDZ as the ruling ruling party did not understand because it did not realize that it should listen to the opposition a little bit. In our proposals that are, there are extremely good, quality suggestions. We don't all have any objection together to having these proposals accepted, to install them, to come with it, it's the end of April, we expected that there would be some set of measures 2.0, or April 2.0, but April 2.0 is not here. When it comes to the work that we are all talking about, it is not clear why this law has not come together and the law which is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice for the simple reason that the people who have been executed have one way to deal with it, the other group will be treated in another way and it is simply not good. But there's another big secret and mystery we can't figure out. Why don't you want to pass a moratorium law on the loans of our citizens, our business entities? What's so magical about protecting banks at all costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201638	Thank you. And we have another break. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201639	Your Honor, Vice President. I am looking for a break in front of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and the Living Wall to consult on the crisis package of measures. Namely, a significant number of citizens, these are thousands and thousands are located in the airspace, they are means self-employed, free artists, seasonal workers, they are not covered by these aid measures, so as the worker who gets fired, gets 4 thousand kuna. They're nowhere to be found, so that's a lot of people, they need to be helped. On the other hand, what I insist on is that we from the party change Croatia is to activate the helicopter money mechanism in front of the CNB, which means that, on the other hand, all of Croatia's age-old citizens are granted four thousand kunas that they do not have to return. Why? That way, we should have done it already, I asked for it a month ago, that would have kept the level of consumption, that would have stabilized as much production, kept it to a significant degree of employment, and there would have been far less problems. We see that the CNB does not respond at all to this and what is worst, the government does not react at all to this, therefore, the most important institution in this crisis simply does not put it into effect. On the other hand, they only help banks, bankers. Banks are not affected by anything in this crisis, so I will insist on changing Croatia in the introduction of property tax to banks, telecom operators because they make the biggest profit. And imagine, please, chief advisor, economic adviser to the Prime Minister, he says today that the banks are, it would be illegal to suspend the account of regular interest. So who do you protect more? The Croatian people certainly do not, and therefore the citizens, let us change that in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201640	So, pause according to Article. In 248. we continue 14 hours and 20 minutes with replicas on fellow Petrova. We've got seven of them. It's 14, 10 o'clock. We're moving on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] So we have 7 replicas. He is his first colleague, Djujic, after him, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201642	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petrov, you mentioned here in explaining your proposals, that the government either does not hear you or does not want to hear you. Now, when we look back, let's say, two, three weeks or so of this crisis, and the SDP has given one whole package of bill proposals, and you've made a proposal for a package of laws that we want to improve the situation of our citizens, however, the government that was full of the mouth of the community needed the community until we adopted the government's law package. And then they didn't want us as an opposition at all, and they didn't want us to listen or involve us in making decisions at all, and that is, from that, it's basically that they don't want to hear us and Plenkovic really cares what we think in the SDP, what you think you think, what anyone from the opposition thinks, and besides, yesterday's, the earlier statement that the Staff is essentially a political body and that political decisions are essentially everything they said. So they're running the same policy all the time and they're even interested in what the opposition thinks, and this is a question that concerns all citizens, not just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201643	Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201644	Exactly. I don't expect from the Prime Minister, of the ruling any thanks for all the suggestions we've made to them. And we as the Most in front of the opposition and you in front of the SDP, I just don't expect, they've never shown any interest or gratitude in 4 years. All our amendments, and even to the budget that were hundreds, each of them were rejected. But they should remember that this is not one, one small town, that this is a whole country issue, absolutely all citizens in the country, that they should be both modest and humble in all of this and fight that every citizen of this country is protected, that every employer of this country has the ability to work and that they should do so in a way to hear and respect the opinions and other people. Such people, unfortunately don't stand in government, but I won't be involved in politicizing. I'm calling them today, and I called them from the pay phone, so listen to what we're saying. Because we don't talk for no reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201645	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Maras. After a colleague of Maras, a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201646	Thank you very much. A colleague of Petrov, I find it interesting to be stuck with the arguments of his colleagues, Felak, why the HGK would be at risk of giving up some of the income during the crisis. So here, when you look at this, this memo, where a colleague of Felak has set out to defend Croatia's Chamber of Commerce, probably on behalf of HDZ as a very useful organisation that acts in the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs and therefore should not be denied their income during the crisis, and I think it should be possible to be a voluntary membership whether it is a crisis or not, so that we can see how much this HGK will collect members and how useful it is. It is almost amazing how HDZ continues to insist on the team, I would tell the art organizations that suck Croatian entrepreneurs' money and simply And in this crisis you are not worthy to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to turn his back on them. [[Intruder: Answer.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201647	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201648	Mr. Maras, I'll do it again. 168 million kunas only HGK has its budget. Of those 168 million kunas, let me be freed, but at least 90% of them are forced memberships, not voluntary ones. And out of that money, over 50% is spent on their salaries. I see no benefit for entrepreneurs in Croatia, as far as the work of the Chamber of Commerce is concerned. Except to go out from time to time with pamphlets in favor of ruling ones. Unfortunately, he's not the only HGK. Well, we've got the HUP case now. And they celebrated with severances the moment they were supposed to fire the person who harassed their other employees. And a series of other chambers, organizations that have the right by law to take membership fees, and that they don't benefit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] At least these members don't benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201649	Thank you. Replica number 3. Col. Anka Mrak-Taritash, after her colleague, Žagar, please welcome colleague Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201650	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. You were in your opening statement talking about a series of things. You were talking about changing your paradigm, with that, that was actually your opening thought. This is a time from which we should learn something. This is a time that we should really take care of and change the paradigm. So we really do when you see what part of the budget are parafiscal impositions. I was expecting, and you probably expected that we had a set of measures that would exactly apply to these parafiscal duties, or the parafiscal burdens are hidden, a series of burdens for the businessmen. It's time to listen to people, time to listen to those who fill our budget that bothers them. But while they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the businessmen, I feel like they're really living in a tower of whiteness and they're just listening to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201651	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of my colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201652	Unfortunately, I'm afraid they're detached from reality. I'll take you only one ink which I think absolutely every citizen in Croatia has, and these are groundwaters. And you know what people will tell you just for pouring water, that they have streams by their houses when it rains. It is rare for those who are excluded, and for years we have heard that from this particular charge taken from every citizen of the water supply will be resolved. They haven't been solved, and that's one imposition. There's 400 of them. Every citizen in Croatia and every entrepreneur is directly concerned. And yes, I expected that they would finally make a package so that this crisis would make them, if they couldn't get into good times, that in bad times because of the pressure and need they would finally start to solve things. I invite them, they haven't yet, although a certain amount of time has been spent, there's still time to change the way they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201653	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Zhagar, followed by his colleague Bulj. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201654	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Petrov. So, the headquarters had legitimacy because of its expertise, it still has it today, but the prime minister said they did not fall from Mars, as they were called by politics, and that they should actually only support political decisions has in one way taken the legitimacy of the headquarters. We also have to tell the Prime Minister that we don't bark here on the moon. We say things that could be useful to the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with these problems. There are a lot of professional people in the Republic of Croatia, there are political parties that have these professional people, as it is possible then that the opposition that no opposition proposal, no amendment is adopted. That's not a good message. If the Prime Minister means all the credit to himself if things go well, let him make it clear. But what happens if things go wrong, then who takes responsibility? That is what the prime minister must now show himself about because the Republic of Croatia does not have much time and measures should be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201655	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201656	Feel free to give all the credit to himself only to bring full laws, to pass quality executive law, to take measures to protect the completed and blocked citizens in full, and not half as well, to protect the citizens by bringing the moratorium to the full amount of credit without interest, so that all credits can be credited to itself. I don't mind, but it's finally going that way. I don't expect, I'll repeat, no thanks, but this is the way they behave so that the PRs can match certain topics, and that actually doesn't make that much sense, and that's why I'm talking. I just hope that this little time that we have left is finally going to change the way we're doing it, that he's finally going to move from word to deed and not just talk about changing the paradigm, but he's going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201657	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bulj, after he's a colleague of Vlaovac's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201658	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you have proposed a number of measures, however, the government rejects them. Some she accepted, but with a big delay. Not only did this crown crisis reveal what all policies have made that are simply pests of the Croatian people we can count and it is evident that it has discovered all of this. Here I'll just say a few things, we've proposed an exclusive economic belt to protect our seas, we've proposed a ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal persons, we've proposed that our 70,000 hectares and 400,000 hectares be shared with our farmers. No, they have endured our peasants, fishermen, farmers outside who pay 6% of GDP 18 billion kuna into the Croatian budget. They're vermin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201659	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201660	Mr. Bulj,...you are an excellent topic, a theme of agriculture, a theme of measures to be taken over the next six months in order to get our economy out. And yes, I agree with you, the mass of quality proposals we've offered they haven't adopted. We'll have to, or you'll have to ask them why. But unless it's working on those measures that are going on in six months, especially in the agricultural segment, especially these 600,000 hectares of agricultural land that are still unprocessed, we won't get far, and the recession will last more and longer than it started in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201661	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaovic's after him and his colleague, Misic, is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201662	Thank you. My colleague Petrov, here is the MOST, has proposed a package of measures, a package of laws, as he did before, together with you SDP, the government has rejected everything as well as all the proposals that opposition parties and clubs have made in the debate with the desire first of all to preserve the health of citizens, but it is also very important to preserve every job in Croatia and to allow the further development of the economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. You asked and did the government hear that, obviously it doesn't hear and doesn't care because I'll remind you it's still six. Officials of the producer and woodworking association have sent a letter to the government asking for emergency measures because they have already begun to lose jobs. 25,000 are unemployed, and the most injured Slavonia where, according to the Regional Employment Office in Osijek, 17.202 persons unemployed in March, it is 1756 people more than last month and 35% more than last March, Slavonia was again injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201663	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201664	Over the next six months, the government needs to come up with a plan to help our economy, not only to stop the negative consequences but to stimulate the growth of the economy. The strategic branches of the Croatian economy to be encouraged should be defined. And what we have in Croatia is our resources are both forest and water and our brains, so we are the ones who need to invest in both the processing industry and the woodworking and the food industry and the IT industry, and not only that our main economic and only economic branches are tourism because it will cost us much more and our crisis will last much longer than some other countries like Italy and similar profits from tourism. But their profit is 5% in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201665	Last line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201666	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov. You've spoken nicely and I can fully agree with some things, but this government has reduced 90% of the profit tax to 12% to 7 million entrepreneurs, parafiscal burdens should certainly be removed. As an entrepreneur, I've been in this for 30 years, we've been destroying the state for 25 years, I'd say freely, all governments so far have only favored the big ones and those who've made the conversions, haven't paid taxes, and SDP has released and written off what in every modern state would be in prison. This government has done more in five years for entrepreneurs and craftsmen than all the governments that have made normal and honest entrepreneurs up to 25 years old, and I have to tell you for sure that I am inside, so I know that well. So this government, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, has tried to do more in the last five years than they have in 25, except for those who have stolen and become millionaires, they've done it up to 25 years. To forgive taxes in every modern state is to go to jail, only this isn't where it went. It was done by the SDP government during Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201667	Here's my colleague Petrov's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201668	Mr. Misic, I am sorry that you, as an entrepreneur in this case, are defending a government that does not work for the benefit of entrepreneurs. After 4 rounds of tax reform, I will face you with a real state that you do not want to see after 4 rounds of tax reform there is no discharge, taxes take part in the same extent as GDP, even announced that there was no epidemic of 5 billion kunas new exactly from taxes. I'm sorry that you're defending the position that there is still a need to remain a profit tax advance, I'm sorry that you're so easily going over that parafiscal imposition won't and won't have to change, and I'm sorry that you as an entrepreneur continue to think and defend such a passive government that you don't have to commit banks to bringing a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs during this crisis, and I'm sorry that you're the attorney of this government as an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201669	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac, Perić, Grčić, Đurić, Kosor, Strenja, Grbin, if I do not open the debate on behalf of the clubs. The first to be reported is counterpart Miro Bulj, on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201670	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Croatian government, respected citizens. Who can watch, who has the opportunity to watch, we see that Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have proposed 9 measures this now, and many other measures that a colleague has stated are measures concerning the real life of the executive law, tax laws, these petty burdens and... on our people who are visible in the results of this crown crisis is this crown crisis taking you down naked, naked. And these laws would make it easier for certain people, but our citizens of our people, at this point I wish the Croatian government had taken a number of measures that we had given in the first round so they didn't accept it. which have been making amendments, however, we have been correct as an opposition and we have accepted their proposals, so that I start with that immediately. Of the many proposals that my colleague Petrov made not to repeat myself, I would only point out that, when it comes to the proposal of the club MOST and those I gave myself, all of them refused because they were not on the side of the people, but were always on the side of those who used Croatian resources for profit. That way we can start from agriculture. I gave the law banning GMOs, imports, transport, sales and planting, but it was not accepted. 90 parliamentary deputies did not accept, and our goal was then to promote domestic production and finally process 700,000 hectares of untreated clean preserved agricultural land. Today is the day of planet Earth, today we must also talk about agriculture, mainly about organic agriculture, the distinguished secretary is coming here from Slavonia, he's hidden behind the pillar, and he knows what happened to Slavonia, he knows that she's been robbed, devastated, and that the peasants are that. The people who worked in agriculture went to Ireland to plant potatoes, and here a hundred times better for the potatoes is the soil mainly of Lika and this part. Let us remember what happened to agriculture in Croatia. Well, the pomivores were sold 1,000 times, tomatoes or tomatoes however you like, sold in the markets while.../incomprehensible/... while the markets in the tourism we call on, while at the same time the Sinjsko polje is not irrigated, Drnik. At the same time in the Vrgorak field there were fruit trees, while you gentlemen dearly took advantage of the import lobbys. What made it convenient for import lobbys? Why is the money invested in agriculture not.../incomprehensible/... domestic production and why did you vote against banning this harmful food GMO? 4.3 billion EUR we import food products, EUR 3 billion, Croatia and now you've come to the conclusion that you're not self-sufficient, now you've come. Now you're the ones who, no longer Miro Bulj choban, are not what, now everyone wanted to be a shepherd. Now everyone's running around the country, agriculture, food industry, but you keep importing the most from our Slavonia dough, frozen bread dough, pork and everything else. As far as guessing is concerned, I'd like it to be suitable for teleopers, banks, so we have to serve the people. I know you don't have the strength. Teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit, HT, a company under the Deutsche Telecom Group, 42% gain in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU is 20% average. They never did, they do whatever they want in Croatia. You know how much money that is, here's a measure for you to do construction permits and to invest reinvest funds in the Republic of Croatia. No, you can't do that because Prime Minister Plenkovic has to be good with Merkel, Angela Merkel is the key to the story of the Chile. You even made fun of farmers, even then you mocked, it's mocking. When the Chinese government was here, the prime minister when he was then you signed an agreement, this government signed a milk export agreement in China. So you have no children's kindergarten what you have made of Croatian villages and peasants. Exports to China, but I'd like us to export to China and tribals to export, but we don't export. Therefore, all these measures that my colleague, I will not list, which my colleague Petrov has given me, and I expect the MOST Club to urgently bring measures into the interest of Croatian citizens. The key measure we've been talking about all along, at first we've been saying write-offs, not delays, that was for entrepreneurs, and this time for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moratorium on credit and interest immediately. You don't have the courage or the strength to do that. Why? Because you have to make out, you have to serve the banking lobbys, you have to serve the banks, you have to. That's the first one. Secondly, why at this point everything that Croatian agriculture has produced is not bought out and not placed on Croatian markets and the trade chains are committed to buying all this for real. This Croatian government will not yet sell Greek and Spanish strawberries but buy our domestic Vrgorska and other domestic products. As far as all these measures are concerned, I think that MOST is one of the most important measures that we warn about, and that this crown crisis has exposed the whole crazy division of the Republic of Croatia, the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and that we urgently need to shut down the counties. The extension of the crisis and the stalemate of the tourist season is a cause in Dalmatia from a county institution appointed by the vice president of the HDZ person Mr. Škaricicic as director of the nursing home. The person who absolutely didn't, who caused the loss of that nursing home and through that person was to kill her, of course, that they brought this virus directly to us through that person, of course they stuck it in our extensions. And now Dalmatia will suffer for the county. They're extra. Now they're going to cross or make a new proposal, and I've been giving you an amendment to the county, to raise the floor of the building, and that this one and that people can be hired, they don't even know how many employees there are. You're not gonna do that. The illogicalities of local self-government, simple illogicality. You're exhausted by the police after these measures. The police were exhausted, the people were exhausted, the police had to stop in every municipality. While I'm at the same time asking here an esteemed secretary and a MUP how many illegal migrants have entered, he doesn't answer, he hasn't answered and how many have been tested. Once again, measures must be strong, MOST proposes these laws that he had given to be strong, and I expect soon my law that I have given to the emergency procedure to help the Minister of Agriculture, if she does so I will applaud her to throw out counties that must give consent to the assignment of agricultural land because measures i.e. The program below is that the land is run by local self-government, it's made and then the mayor has to give consent to the ministry. And it's a kosher wheel, I say it's what everyone keeps and doesn't let go, and the earth doesn't work. Everyone pleases their own, if local leaders do not respect and do no work within the deadline, so let the minister do it freely, I will give her the support to finally take the country down, let's dive the Croatian fields. We're not self-sufficient and now all of a sudden what I've been saying for five years here, Andrej Plenkovic used to mock me because he's a man from the city, I'm from the village, I'm a peasant, okay, I'm all alone, I'm all that he thinks is the worst, now he's suddenly changing the paradigm, we have to work, we have to invest in agricultural land, and he's just him and those countys have destroyed agriculture. In Split-Dalmatia County, Sinjsko polje is not listed, 6,000 hectares 20 km from Split and now suddenly measures for agriculture and we rub them from the window clap, to them who destroyed everything, and today in, in the departments of civil protection, they will suffer for not being in the Homeland War, so wear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201671	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is a debate from counterpart Grozdana Peric, please welcome colleagues Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201672	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here is a debate on the proposal for the law of the Most Independent Lists and Mr. God Petrov and the HDZ Club will not accept these drafts of the law. When we talk about such a disastrous government, then we must say that, so far, the pandemic was declared 19.3.2020, that within 30 and 3 more days measures were taken, March measures, April measures, that so far this government which has so disastrously made 37 drafts of the law, 3 regulations, 22 decisions, 4 conclusions and all that parallelly implemented, as we debate it here, it is now paid over a billion and 550 million kuna for 84 000 employers and 480,000 employees. So over 500,000 jobs were preserved and preserved. So, when we talk about the whole package of this law, then I have to point out that exactly the law on, executive law, amendments and additions to the General Tax Law, amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, Income, etc., we need to remember all those laws and amendments that took place in 2019, and then the application from 2020, where for example. for small entrepreneurs who had traffic up to 3 million kuna, that the threshold increased to 7.5 million kuna, that they were classified in the category or that the tax on income was reduced from 20 to 12% for them, and for those large 18%, the same was reduced compared to previous periods, that it was parallel to changes in income tax regulations, that the non-taxable part and the non-taxable amount of wages and income were increased, and that significant revenues were increased and the total basket was actually increased, and the number of persons they had had had had no obligation to pay any income tax, which is very important to point out. In the process, as far as I know, it is also a proposal for a new amendment to the Law on suspending bankruptcy and enforcement for all legal and physical persons, which will then greatly contribute to all of these previous measures which have been made, and with this law on money that apron today has already stopped the implementation of more than 91250 citizens, and with these additions of the Law on Implementation will be very helpful to the business world and the world of work. What we need to say is that it is parallel with this is also additional measures, and that is that the state budget and the Ministry of Finance has made and we have received a report on it, a redistribution of more than 2.1 billion kuna, and when you look at these redistributions made from the existing budget, it is possible to increase the guarantee funds and programmes of the economy, credit lines of exports via HBOR, via HAMAG-BICRO, that the funds for the MUP are also provided and the increased efforts they have in this crisis period, that more than 34 million kunas of cultural support for all our employees in culture who can't make money, in agriculture 20 million kuna, in the HZZ of this total amount are over a billion and 800 million kuna, and all of which so far have been paid out of it for a billion and a half. When we add that social, social aid, or giving, has not been abolished, but has received another 50 million in the redistribution of social care. The Ministry of Tourism, which will help entrepreneurs in this area, where the same people in charge and with certain loans and investments will be able to extend their obligations, and of course not forgotten by the Ministry of Health with 40 and over 3 million kuna, therefore from the existing budget, regardless of what is possible and most likely the Minister of Finance will also find additional funds to help both the economy and the citizens. Therefore, when we talk about how this government has no sensitivity, how it does not listen to citizens, how it does not listen to entrepreneurs, then I have to harshly and sharply deny it because, thanks to these measures, jobs have been preserved, it may have calmed down a large number of employees who have already been perhaps with one leg at the unemployment stage, and in this way it has been possible for these people to remain safe and continue to look for ways and solutions to help and start our economy. What we should certainly all ask ourselves is whether we have done well, whether we should turn more to our agriculture, more to our production, more to our entrepreneurship, or to create and develop our skills to be as dependent on some segments of imports as possible, is certainly something that this government will think very much about, but it is also for all of us to think about how we can improve and improve our situation, our situation and our situation. When we talk about how easy it is and how easy it is to eliminate certain imposes were they called either parafiscal or such or such, then remember that there are some kind of laboratory research, that there are a number of employees behind it, here if we are going to cut the costs in the budget then we need to think about how many doctors, how many soldiers, how many teachers we have, how many teachers and all the other activities that are very important to us and which have proved to be very important and able to deal with exactly these problems and with these challenges which unfortunately this government is being followed by many but despite all these criticisms, I think we can proudly say that it is very good at managing all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201673	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Just a second, fellow Petrov. Thank you. Here's a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the promoter for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201674	Comrade Peric, do you know where the problem is with your exposure? You came here to defend the government, I expected you to be a representative of the government, you came as a representative of the government, defend the government, defend the government's actions for the last four years, and I came here to discuss the measures. And we can't talk about it automatically, I want us to talk about the measures, and the only thing I've been listening to, one poem that you hope Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will clap long after he's heard it all. And yes, I don't criticise the government for the measures it's taken because honestly these are the measures we suggested on the first day. I'm criticizing her because they're half, because not everything is done. I'm not saying this government didn't do anything, but I'm saying she didn't do as much as she could. And every man will tell you in Croatia, so it's better than nothing, because we didn't have anything before, but I'm telling you it's not enough. And if we're going to be responsible for these citizens, then we should offer them life after this crisis. And given the time you need because with everything we suggest you wait 2 to 3 weeks, is it because you are waiting for the echo to be lost that you are proposed by the members of the opposition, is that you are waiting and because you cannot manage, I am not going into the reasons why you are waiting, but I am telling you to wait and you are wasting time, that you need to be faster, that you need to be more efficient, that you need to take full measures. I expected the moment you came here for a pay phone that you will take the measures that we have proposed which are now the subject of this debate and you will taxfully tell me, you know the Government doesn't want to support your proposal of the Executive Law, we don't want to protect all people in Croatia, we don't want to protect both their property and their mobility, we don't want to protect them from employers who have the right to perform, we don't want to protect them from pension insurance because of that and that. No, you were talking about what HDZ's been doing for the last four years. Then I expected you to also say, I think MOST proposes that there be a write-off of the dues during the epidemic 90 days after, so you're going to tell me why you don't support it, so you didn't even say that. So then we suggested that the profit tax advance be lifted, you just shut up, so I guess you still agree with that profit tax advance, by lending our entrepreneurs, our citizens to the state, and I wouldn't care why. I've been looking for answers all along why? I've been asking the Minister of Finance for a year and a half, which is why the whole state, I think of citizens and entrepreneurs, needs to borrow the state by taxing on profits. There's no answer. But I'm going to call them on purpose now because, unfortunately, you don't hear them, you define them, the loads still pay. Well, unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Then we also suggested that it be permanently taken to charge VAT at charge, that for protective equipment, it also be reduced to 5%, to abolish the HGK membership fee, to abolish the flat-rate tax, that's all we proposed. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer. All we got at the beginning is your line that you downloaded all these suggestions for our citizens, the government disagrees with this, we won't support this, and that's all your argument. So, as someone there says hop, you jump without any thought. You probably came here that when the vote raises your hand, you have a prepared speech about what the government was doing, I'm not interested in this debate today. I'm interested in you taxing me on why you don't support the proposals, which is why you don't want to protect the completed and blocked, which is why you don't want to help the entrepreneurs, and I'm interested in what you're going to do in the next six months, where's the plan, and where are the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201675	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201676	Dear Mr. Petrov, unlike you, I am a professional and financial one who came from the real sector and from local self-government. So when you talk about it, then I could talk about this for at least two hours at least to explain the elemental things that you don't understand and that you don't want to understand at all. If you were able to do something then you'd be part of this government's ruling action that brings them in, not this way to criticize them, and you don't have the arguments why you're criticizing them. When we talk about this, all of these elements here, so look at how much of it is made, what and how it thinks about every man, about every entrepreneur. And you're going to talk about not talking about the profession here, but raising your hands. What are you talking about? You have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201677	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201678	Ma'am. Peric, I know that the truth hurts and that's how you react by insulting me. I didn't insult you, I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. But what I have to tell you is that someone has some paper that's some kind of waist, that doesn't mean they have the knowledge to deal with it, that situation. And that I'm about to tell you because I've been through certain things, and unlike all those mayors and mayors, HDZ's arrests in I don't know how many hundred of the 500 hundred HDZ municipalities, I've come to the municipality where the debt of the municipality was greater than annual, annual incomes and all of it came back in a year and started projects. I, unlike all the other mayors and mayors, have this right to tell you because I did it and I expect you to do it within three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201679	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201680	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Petrov, I gave the replica because you were always talking to my colleague Peric. My colleague Peric is a colleague of ours, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, the HDZ position, and there she had the need to highlight everything she estimated to be good. I think you should have spoken to the government's representatives. We have representatives of the government sitting here and they haven't said a single word. They showed no wish at all to tell you from their resors what you suggested wrongly, which the government thinks is not good, why they, why they won't accept it, was their task. I didn't expect anything else from my colleague Peric, I expected exactly what the debate was, but that's why there are government representatives who have to and that's why they're from different resolutions, which they have to, they're the ones who propose measures, they're the ones who do, they're the ones who should have said why it's wrong for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201681	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201682	Representative Mrak-Taritash, you see these representatives of the government, you hear them, I don't hear them because I don't see them, they don't exist for me, there are those who talk, they're discussing what's on the subject today, it's number one. Number two, yes, I addressed MP Peric, who is our colleague for the reason that I wanted to direct the conversation so that we don't talk about HDZ, I don't want to talk about HDZ because there's no need to talk about HDZ in the situation that our entrepreneurs and our citizens are in, but the measures we should have brought, we can bring in and that we need to bring in. That's what I want to talk to you about. And the fact that someone is going to insult me about it doesn't touch me, if we're going to get at least one solution today, some idea of how to help people in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201683	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201684	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Petrov, I agree with you that when laws are passed then they must be equal for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and here's the Executive Law we are still waiting for third reading, while last week the law was passed where 2/3 of those people who have been blocked, the tasks carried out and the blockades of the FINA will be unblocked this week, and for 1/3 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia it is not so and the real question is why the Executive Law was not part of these measures and that I agree with you that if we want to help the citizens that we must both moratorium on loans and for a year without interest, at no cost, because people will not be able to pay it. Of course we want to keep every job, especially with us in Slavonia, and it is precisely in the phase of amending the rules on direct payments and.../incomprehensible/... shifts where direct payments for multi-annual plantations are reduced. Well, that's absurd, and that's 15 million kuna again less for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201685	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201686	A respected colleague, a loan moratorium should go completely, should be a interest-free period, the banks have money for it, are bathed in money right now, the CNB has lowered their mandatory reserve from 12% to 9% I believe that colleague Peric, who is an economist, will recognise what I'm saying and will also give me a comment which is why the government does not want to oblige the banks that have money today, that the law obliges them to introduce a moratorium on loans and citizens and entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic. I also want to hear from the ruling majority, which is why it is not just a law as we propose, to protect everyone, to protect them for the full time, to protect them in every way, not just by account, but also by movable and real estate. That it's not only blocked by FINA, it's blocked by employers. and FINA and pension insurance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201687	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201688	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government who are here with us patiently listen, we have a set of laws before us, which are proposed by MOST or by fellow Petrov. This set of laws speaks in favour of what the opposition thinks the government still needs to do. We are at one time, the era of the crown of the virus, one absolute for us unknown age, one time at which this unknown virus really causes us a certain fear of the unknown, when I speak to us I mean in people and Croatia decided to protect the lives of the citizens first, and then decided to set a set of measures that are related to the economy. And I'm sure none of us have any colleagues who hear him loudly, but that's another story, that it's a good thing she decided to protect people's lives first, and then the businessmen. That set of measures that was in March I kind of call the trial because there was no power at the time and it was afraid and didn't know how long it would last and then what we said couldn't be a delay, but that it had to be forgiveness came to us in a set of measures April 1 0. Somehow it was to expect a set of measures to come April 2nd, but as April goes, it's hard to expect it to be that simple. This relationship at this point between the ruling and the opposition is not a one-way street, it is not a street where opposition needs everything that the ruling proposes nod and does not have a single remark. The opposition should say what he thinks should be better, what must be done can be done. But there's no movement between the ruling and the opposition by one millimeter. The moment the opposition says ok, all together we think we should do it one way or another, and then about that vote then we're a constructive opposition, but when we say my people didn't do it well, do it, here's a suggestion, take those suggestions, even if you don't want our vote read them, see, come in two weeks with your own then it's called pulsism. So, we just have to decide whether or not we call the opposition to be involved in populism, or we think the opposition is constructive. In these relationships the power when we have Covid-19 and the corona opposition is constructive. She was constructive from the very beginning, she said okay, we're struggling with something unknown but of course that some kind of patience comes to an end. Because we see that it is truly considered a one-way street, the ruling goes to its own, and the opposition if it says anything is good. I'll concentrate on a few things in all this debate on behalf of the club. The first thing that is important to mention is an indication of how the inspection experienced during the Coronation of the Virus. Not long ago, in this same assembly there was a debate about a great inspection where everything should be in one place and in this debate we said don't mess up with a new mess. In this debate, we warned that the inspection should be advisory, and only after that some education, advice and everything else should be really charged and everything else. During the Coronation of the Virus, we have entrepreneurs, hosts who want to work, want to work, and therefore instead of helping them work, instead of helping them, the inspection goes out and then says it wasn't the right table and because it wasn't the right table and it didn't meet the minimum technical conditions it can't work for 30 days. So he shows his worst face. There were opportunities, there could be conversations, and it could be sent by email to everything they need to meet, and I'm sure everyone in the catering business will do it for themselves, because of the workers they do, because of their future they'll do it and ask what they need to do. How is it that behind that there was enough one meeting of maybe a little more than an hour to get rid of it all? This is the era of the coronary virus in which we must not be unreasonable, we must not be inhuman and we must not be bureaucratic. The inspection has shown its true face, an absolute lack of understanding of the problem, inhumane towards people who want to work and bureaucraticly insolent paragraph, both this and that. So from the time we live in the coronary virus, we need to learn something, if we learn something, we'll be better people, we'll treat each other better, and we'll do better work. If we don't learn that, then we're all going to pay a toll to this situation we have now. We all have to work with a series of measures, and so are the measures that the businessmen are now doing, that the day after that they will be ready to work. In the media, you can see that there is an association called the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which writes a letter to the prime minister. And he writes a letter to the prime minister why, out of his impotence because they speak, because they warn, because they point to things, and the prime minister doesn't accept them at the meeting, the prime minister doesn't answer them. The fact is that today I am in the context that last month since the earthquake in Zagreb has written a letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic where I told him that the sin of inaction is one of the serious sins that the citizens of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb will remember but about it some other time. I'd just like to point two more things out. There's one thing to do. So, if we have a purpose and if we follow a few laws, everyone knows from his domain that is the law and everyone knows that it should come as a set. You can't have first and second-class citizens or third-class citizens in relation to the performances. It was all supposed to come together. So MOST is just or a colleague of Petrov's did what you didn't do. So, take it, work it, do it, nobody will be, nobody will say it, I'm the one, it's good to do it. And for the end, we have a theme of banks and a theme of leasing houses. So, when it was said that there would be a delay in the loan you today without the crown and before the crown and behind the crown you can come to the bank and say that your extraordinary conditions are to postpone your payment of the loan at that time you will pay the soloisation you must make and they will charge you interest and you will eventually have more. At the time of the coronary virus it was logical for everyone and normally do not offer me what I can otherwise get, suggest something else. You can really suggest that when we have a virus coronary situation, or a general pandemic, or a few days or 30 days after humans, it's enough because as soon as they start to do something, they'll be able to pay back, there's no interest. Everything rests, I continue where I left off at the moment I got a delay, and an even bigger situation with leasing houses, people took buses to Leasing, with these buses so they deal with transportation, these buses stand because they can't deal with their activities, of course they're charging them with interest for that time, which they won't have to pay from, and the stock they've given their private properties. Imagine what it'll be a day later. The opposition points to things you need to do right away, but listen to us, we all have to take care of the day after, about the day after, everyone has to be ready to work. And we learn something from this, it's important that we learn from this that we are better people, better people to each other, and create conditions that really do economics. The day after, I can work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201689	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives of Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasnbegovic, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic was to speak, he is not, losing his right to speak, and on behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by the respected representative Petrov, vice president of this high house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201690	My colleagues and fellow MPs would suggest we return to normal tone. I'm not interested in defending a party. I'm interested in discussing measures. I will therefore repeat the proposals made by MOST, I would like to hear rational answers in the debate, not only from the ruling majority but also from the opposition, if these measures don't make sense I want a rational basis why they don't make sense, and if they make sense and then if we are going to take care of the citizens I want to hear when they will be adopted. Moreover, when I quote these measures that we are proposing today, I will also propose some other measures that we should consider for the next six months. I'd only pray that after that there wouldn't be any silence. I don't expect any silence to be discussed, even from those who represent the government. So what we have proposed in this set of laws is that those who have over them perform, blockages, that they are not only carried out by account but that they stop the implementation of their movements, on their real estates, that not only stop the FIN in carrying out the operation but that neither pension insurance has the right to carry out the performance nor employers have the right to carry out the performance. Also, we asked for an amendment to the General Tax Law in order to be a complete write-off of the commitments made during the epidemic and 90 days after, to give space and time to entrepreneurs so that they could prepare for the economy to move. Also, we asked to introduce a permanent, permanent suspension of the tax on profits, to abolish dividend tax and to cut profits. Also, to abolish the payment of flat-rate income tax for renters in tourism because we have to face the fact that tourism this year will not be or may be in the tracks compared to last year. Also, we asked that there be a possibility of paying for all taxpayers regardless of their income levels, we asked that VAT be changed for protective equipment to be at 5% level. Also, we asked that parafiscal impose be lifted, we suggested that the start of these 400 should not necessarily be paid to the HGK membership fee. We also suggested that the membership of tourist communities in the Law on Parental and Parental Refunds be abolished, we suggested that maternity leave be taken at full pay from 6 to 10 months, to abolish restrictions for the use of a period of 8 months for the first and second children. I would ask the present parliamentary deputies that if there is a reason why these measures cannot go, to tell me a rational basis. And if it can go, then I'd like to hear from the ruling when it's time for these vulnerable groups to be helped in this way. Also, there will be time in the debate today because a little time at this point as a proposer to make a few proposals and for the measures that I need in the next six months and I will accept the fact that the government will never praise me for this opposition, and I honestly don't care, I want to take advantage of my time that citizens have given me to be completely clean with them that I can say really alone in what you've given me as much as I can. It is up to me to make a proposal, and it is up to the rulings to accept or reject the proposal. I only ask you because of the people who have given us all their votes responsibility as to how the rulings such opposition, consider that in this situation there should be no division but I would ask you to hear, the suggestions we are giving you are not for us to engage politically with you, I do not need political games at this time, or anyone in the Republic of Croatia, because the crowd of people today in the Republic is worried about whether they will literally be able to buy their children to eat next month.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201691	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201692	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, it is absolutely clear here, at least to me from some composition as far as you can see that you will receive support of the opposition for your actions. But you can paint free if you're just looking for our support. There's supposed to be an answer, I was expecting government representatives to give some answers, you've asked a series of questions to which I can get, give them, not us. But just to remind you, it might be easier for us all to understand together, we recently had a set of tourism laws that changed some things, and then, for the head of the office, it remained still that it had to have a passed exam for which some money had to be given, but the provision was deleted that it had to know a foreign language. I'm very interested in how someone deals with tourism without knowing a foreign language. So that's where the idea and the intention of the ruling in which they see all these changes and additions to the law has already been shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201693	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201694	Representative Taritash, we will now, as an opposition, continue to apply the vocabulary they have given us by ruling over the last two months, the change in the paradigm. It'll come out on their noses. It will come out of their ears how many times I will mention it and ask them to go from word to deed. And as this proposal you said makes no sense to me, it doesn't make any sense to me what happened the other day with the state inspectorate where the inspectors are breaking into a catering facility based on alleged illegality which is not supported by measures published in the National Journal of Civil Protection Staff. But it's even harder for me to accept that the ruling majority who protects these same people is silent. I don't want to keep quiet, we need to talk, we need to work in the interest of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201695	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201696	Thank you. Col. Petrov, in the presentation of his colleague, Peric, we heard that the government is preparing a standoff for both legal persons and individuals, so I guess tomorrow it will be at the government of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, I don't know. But what's missing from your law about these performances, the congestion of the performance, is the stalemate of the flow of tight interest. So, I suggest you prepare yourself an amendment that says that the flow of tight interest is interrupted as prescribed in that law on monetary performances that we've already voted on, I'm not going to give you that amendment, but you do. Anyway, I'll support all your suggestions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201697	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201698	Comrade Alexic, thank you for your suggestion. And as you've made the proposal that we're going to make, but I'd like you to write that amendment. We will accept absolutely all the proposals that come today, which are constructive, neither will we and the Priors reject. I believe that at such a level should be not only this debate but absolutely all discussions in HS. So this proposal that you have made and all the other proposals that come, we will consider them, accept them if at least a small level contributes to a better bill, and our only hope is in the end that they will work on the other side of the ruling majority who have a majority in their hands at the time of voting not to think about political games and their own small interests but to citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201699	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201700	Dear fellow Petrov, that we will undisputedly support all your proposals of the law, not because they are ideal, but because they are needed to look at the solutions of this situation in other ways because it has gone wrong. The first sign was some unity and call for cooperation, after which it seems that the rulings realized that it would be a children's game and that they could very easily control the situation. However, it is obvious that the time in which we live requires a kind of national unity in the legislative sense and consultation in the executive power to deal with this situation that is not so easy and will not be resolved so quickly. I think the fundamental problem, the problem of accessing this problem through pride and the kind of pride of those who think it will be so easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201701	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201702	I have long regretted any indication that ruling will acknowledge in any way what the opposition or the proposals they have collected from the opposition are doing. I would also suggest to you that as soon as you get over it because it turns out that we're complaining, I'm not complaining at all, I'm glad for everything, if there wasn't any pressure on the opposition, unfortunately if there wasn't no pressure on the opposition, the pressure of the media ruling would never at least be in that segment in which they are, and haven't fully, spent their write-off and not delay. It's enough for me to know that we did it as an opposition and the public. I wouldn't want on the other hand that there's pressure, that there's even a need for pressure. I hope that changes because this situation is what it is. It really requires all the heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201703	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201704	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here I join my colleagues to say the same thing, so most of your measures are acceptable to us for the simple reason that we also here two or three weeks ago have proposed very similar things and you know how they went here in the assembly when it comes to the treatment of most, therefore the ruling majority. So, unfortunately, we don't have to have any hope that any of this will be accepted by the ruling ones, this has already been clearly shown in these attempts, so as SDP each time in the last four weeks, let's say, every seven days before the government's package, we went out with our package. You followed it and you knew it and you saw how it went. We wanted at least some of it to be adopted, something small, something small because of this wider pressure, but most of it is therefore more than 90% of it is not of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201705	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201706	Representative Greekic, they accepted certain things, they accepted that they had to cancel, not postpone, they accepted that VAT at least at a certain rate be charged at a fee. What I don't want to accept is that these are temporary measures, that they're not all covered by it, but that's an indication that we should just be resilient, and they will if for nothing, if not because of that voice of reason, if not because of the sense of belonging to those same people who are supposed to defend here, and then because of the pressure and the political calculations that parliamentary elections are coming soon, unless they intended to postpone them for another year, they have to change to the rest of that pressure and this stuff. And if we have to, we'll propose every week and every week. to do the pressure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201707	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201708	... Ministry representatives, so I want to say that this crisis is really deep, the evaluations for the economic part are very serious. [[Specially enabled.]] So, every month on average, about 3% of the less GDP means, and the extension of this crisis would be really catastrophic for both the economy and the whole society because all the negative effects on the whole society stem from the economic situation. What I'm trying to say is here and the continuation of what we're talking about right now is actually when it comes to the economy, it's a real measure of this support for the preservation of jobs of 4,000 kuna for each worker who retains his job. It was also a financially demanding measure but here's the government brought it in and now we're where we are, unfortunately it didn't bring everything else that we've been wanting and we're proposing and it's actually asking what's going on with all the other actors today in all the segments of society that can't count on similar government measures that will help them get through this difficult crisis more easily. And the end of the crisis isn't in sight as much as we want it to be. And today's data from over 40 new patients seem to me, which is de facto a little less than the average of Croatia so far, the daily average is seriously warning us that the crisis in Croatia has not yet been the end when it comes to the coronary virus, probably not going to be. So, we have to prepare ourselves for actually one co-existence with the virus and through these measures that have been announced, which we talked about in SDP yesterday, means some limited yield very cautiously like walking on a thin ice where you never know where you're going to slip or even fall through that ice, we actually have to go into the activation of the economy. And now there's a question and a very significant request to the government what should be done to make it really happen? Don't expect craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and middle-aged ones to be the biggest and easiest ones, but these little ones will just so easily activate their business based on a political decision or opinion of the Civil Protection Staff tomorrow when the measures are loosened, no, that's not possible. So, they need to be prepared for this because they already have one discontinuity that has significantly disrupted their business and the government has to seriously think right now at this point that is going to happen 15.6. Why am I talking to 15.6? So all the measures, these few important ones that have now been passed by this government, are running out of defact three months later. Supports of £4,000 run out around 15.6, and then what? So 500,000 people receive that support. But count, really count because this is our reality that the economy cannot, even if it is now the end of the virus crisis, return to that level of business activity that was just before stopping the whole process. Lock down. Lockdown. You have to take care of that. Because if a restaurant at a table with four chairs can have two people, if a bar can sit at the same table as two people or even one, then it's half the business. If the factory needs to make a social distance between workers, then it will be a complete reorganisation of the process. And not to mention tourism, which unfortunately this year will certainly not return to any stronger activity at all, but may remain at 10, 20% of its capacity. Therefore, you must count on a large number of jobs and people working there to be threatened. Therefore, they have a very bad outcome 15.6. unless you bring a replacement measure. Well, we didn't just propose the Short Time Act. We took advantage of one option which the EU wants to finance to continue this 4,000.00 kn measure to be the Short Work Time Act, to redistribute and organise working hours so that people can stay at work, work shorter, and make up for the difference in wages by the Croatian state with the help of the EU and the programme for sure. It's an idea. Well, it's not a story about a moratorium. It's not a political story that we're gonna argue about. I don't know if you realize that in 3 months when people run out of moratorium to pay credit, whether it's about citizens, 30 000 of them who at this point have made a request or 10 000 firms who have made a request at this point. So, in three months, it's running out. Do you think they'll be able to pay those loan payments after three months based on what I said? So how are those who lose their jobs, unemployed, going to pay for the loan war? And the situation in society and the economy is that the odds of finding a job are zero. So, people come to our senses, so it's not a matter of bickering, it's a matter of life. If the Slovenians could make a moratorium and pass the law, the government passed the law, I stress, on moratorium for 12 months. And if their banks, perhaps intimately, were not satisfied with it, I can't be, but the moment is such that the circumstances are extraordinary, that the situation has never been worse in the last 100 years. in the world, and so in the Republic of Croatia, extraordinary measures are being taken at such times and banks must understand that they must carry part of the burden of that story. And if they can survive 12 months of banks in Slovenia, I believe that banks in the Republic of Slovenia can survive. And in a way that they don't charge interest during the moratorium and they don't charge the soleization of the contract, so not to hear these, these ridiculous, really funny arguments for me from the bank association where they say, you know, if we write off interest, citizens will pay income taxes on that discount interest. What nonsense. What nonsense. In other words, did the Croatian government not make a decision to exempt and postpone the payment of income tax, profit, even delay VAT payments, did it not? I just expect that the government will specify that this also applies to this segment if there is a grain of legal basis to do so as people from the Hub do or from the banks interpret it. So don't people play with the fates of people who don't know what to do with themselves right now. The jobs are lost, their wages are reduced, their prospects are very poor, economic reactivation will be long and tiring, complex, etc. etc. And now I just want to say in these minutes what you haven't covered up yet. So here we're talking about 500,000 workers and it's absolutely legitimate and we welcome it and we supported it. But where is 400,000 people who are receiving pensions today below 1.900,00 kn or 1.500,00 kn per family member. How do they live today? How do these older people live today? How do they get to the store? They're not leaving at all. So they have to hire someone. Maybe the delivery uses, maybe they pay for that delivery, maybe it's an extra cost, maybe someone needs help paying for it? That's what we're talking about. We're talking about life in these circumstances, we're talking about 20,000 people already registered to an office, one part of them doesn't have any compensation. Why are they punished? Because they went to the Bureau, they didn't have a fee, and their friends stayed with them, and they're going to get out of the country 4,000.00. Let's even them up for this period for at least three months, and we'll see what's going on with them. What about 70,000 socially-needed people who are receiving 80,0,00 kn right now? What about seasons that unfortunately work won't win, nor have they got it now 1.4? They're 5500. So does he need a fee from them? We said here at least at the minimum wage level for the next three months, so we'll move on, and we'll see. But you weren't thinking about them. What about 100,000 people who are already at the office, and they have no compensation at all, etc. etc.? We have proposed all these measures, and unfortunately, the government has not adopted any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201709	Thank you. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and let's change Croatia in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201710	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected representatives of the government. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Most Party. How much, like, nine draft laws to improve, means these crisis packages, the crisis measures that the government has adopted here in this assembly. Of course, if this crisis package is a government measure, it's flawed, I said it a month ago when we first discussed here, I warned that the government must see a month, two, two, three steps ahead, and not wait for the month to pass, and then I say, yeah, this wasn't right, let's go ahead and forward, and we can't look back and forward, but obviously this government doesn't have the capacity to deal with the current crisis, it makes up for the strong piar, and we'll see how much they spent for it. So, MOST proposes the following, that VAT be charged on what is sold. That's what we said three years ago. We in the party change Croatia and that it should remain and we are supplementing it now. What else is there to say? So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When they sell, they have to pay VAT. However, there is one institute called the transfer of tax obligations. And that means that not everyone in the chain is counting, it could be 2, 3, 4, 5, in the chain to the final buyer, so VAT only pays the last step when the final goods are sold, you see. Why? You don't harass entrepreneurs with a lot of reports, etc. etc. Accordingly, we from Change Croatia, we have really top experts. We suggest that in this context when we talk about taxes to introduce fiscalization of all legal persons. Not that bitch on the payroll, just this, what, all the legal people. So, my brother, when you put out the invoice, he'll go straight to the Ministry of Finance. So, there's no people of mine, there's no simmering, we're reducing corruption, and the Treasury has, the IRS has insight into everything. If it weren't for 28 billion kunas of unpaid taxes to be dear to my citizens in this country, 28 billion kuna is unpaid taxes, and each year the tax administration writes down an average of a billion and a half to two billion kuna taxes per our unknown criteria. When I asked them how, they said MP, it's a tax secret, you see, and 28 billion kunas are not charged. Imagine if they'd charged at least 14 billion, so today we'd get through this crisis a lot more casually. But dear citizens, you see, I cannot save the Republic of Croatia from cosmetic solutions. That's why we're for big, big changes and with people who know it. So, the next request is a moratorium for 12 months, we've been looking for it more or less everyone from the opposition, that's very justified. We further asked that people not be executed directly with HZMO, you know these are mass pensioners, etc. etc. etc. So that makes sense, and that's what this guy needs to do. When it comes to the executive law, it is proposed here that those who receive it constitute aid from the state, for example. It's a worker who's lost his job, so he's got a minimum wager, and at the time he's subject to some kind of errand, so that means that those funds don't get into his performance mass. Therefore, it is, beware, it is by nature things logical and it should be done so because we cannot allow such people to be carried out, so, and they have received state aid, all of us state bounds in all of this. In that context, so what do we want here, you know? We in opposition, we first have to point out here, we're not all the same in the opposition to understand each other, there's solidarity between us, there's one, let's just say, false opposition, then there's, let's say, a real opposition, so this, that etc. Let's just say now that a man listens to SDP representatives pleading for workers, I'd be the first to cry out here by fellow citizens. And no one has taken away any more rights workers than their own government, I mean, it's a tragic sense, it's a tragic sense. That's why it's not good for us here to have each other as well as we are now an opposition, so we have some false solidarity, so dear citizens, we've seen this false solidarity. We need big solutions. Major procedures, first of all knowledge. Well, now that I wouldn't talk about it, you know that I don't like to do it, I'll repeat here and that MOST hears that they support everyone else, how to solve the blocked, and that's why they come to the top. This can be resolved to press the government within three months can be resolved now as the crisis takes place and that the problem no longer exists after three months, there would be no notion of blocked citizens, there would be no erasure of debt enforcement agencies. What idea? So the banks sold to law enforcement agencies their claims that they paid about 10 billion kuna. What's our PH solution? The state needs to issue bonds of 10 billion kuna to pay off these debt enforcement agencies, erase them no longer that they do not exist, and then these bonds can be bought by all, and most of them by HBOR, which would receive a huge loan from the CNB at 9% interest. What deadline? Let's say it's an average of 10 years of all maturity. And you see, dear citizens, what is the essence of you being blocked, which is an advantage to you? Banks have sold their claims by only 30, 35% of their value and you would now be in a position to buy your debts from the state by 35, up to 40% for some administration. So if someone stayed in debt for 100,000 kuna at the end of 5 or 10 years, he should only pay back 40,000 kuna at the most. And you see your colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, so let's bet on this to solve this in three months, we don't need us, here you are from the MOST when you were at the opportunity twice you could have solved the issue of executive law like this. You just said then that you wouldn't want an amendment in fact one article that shouldn't be moving people out during the winter while the snow is etc., let's solve it now, let's forget it, but let's solve it now that in three months there's no problem. And that's the solution I've made, it's just practical, it's real. I know the ruling coalition won't do it, so it doesn't occur to them because they cheer, they push money into the pockets of bankers who are full of money anyway. But that's why we have to make an opposition. And another thing I'm suggesting is, let's just say it's reinforced and big solutions are heard from the opposition circles, strong, it's helicopter money, it's a measure. I suggested it a month ago, no matter what, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance didn't hear it. What's this about? The proposal was to literally divide the CNB by 4,000 kuna for all of Croatia's adult citizens, which would amount to around 10 billion kuna, people shouldn't pay it back, they would spend. Why does it matter? Because it would maintain consumption, demand, and as soon as demand exists, then it could save the economy, more jobs, production wouldn't fall as much as it is now, etc., etc. And while the whole world of America is here and Japan is sharing 7,500 kunas these days to all citizens, those who are more affected will be divided twice, so that's something that works. However, it is not a concept of this government and that is why we from the PH party as a real opposition we want to essentially resolve this. So now the National Bank should also help citizens and the economy, and it does not help it, of course, sees what is the interest of large capital, financial institutions above all banks. And there's something else I have to say to the respected citizens in the end. A month ago, I warned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that I would file criminal charges if we were hired outside with interest which is more important than I could get here in Croatia. Croatia needs to have this recovery process financed by the CNB at 0%, and if this is to the detriment of Croatian citizens, I repeat, I will file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201711	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives should be HNS and speak to the respected representative Stjepan Curaj, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so the next one will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201712	Thank you. In front of us is a set of laws proposed by my colleague Petrov, of course I will accept my club, and I haven't talked to them completely yet, but they will also accept the complete set of laws. I told my colleague Petrov's replica that there's no provision for the suspension of the flow of tight interest, it says only interest, maybe only the tight ones should be added, maybe it's clear, maybe it's not clear, I don't know, it just says that during the delay, no interest is charged. Maybe that's enough, okay, that's enough. But also colleague Peric said that tomorrow, she did not say that tomorrow the government would propose it, that tomorrow the government would adopt it, but I assume that tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to amend the executive law and that proposal will clearly propose what is proposed today at the government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am myself and my party, the SNAGA party, ten days ago we have just proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a set of 16 measures among which was a stopover measure, along with an account deblock and a delay in the flow of tight interest, and that is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia partially achieved last week when we adopted amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary charges where people are now as far as I hear and unblocked accounts. I warned during the debate and after further amending the Executive Act in order to stop the executions of those citizens whose performances are not being done so that money is paid to a blocked account but the employer directly executes his employer in a way that the part of the salary is immediately transferred to the creditor's account. Also, HZMO directly transfers the part of the pension to the creditor's account, and by all accounts it will be settled tomorrow at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We probably won't vote on it this week, but it's not too late next week because, as well as the amendments to the Law on monetary performances and amendments to the Implementing Law that stop enforcement will only apply to the next salaries and subsequent pensions that come to order in May. Therefore, people will be protected in May, June and July from the performance, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will then extend to another three months as provided for by the Law on the implementation of monetary performances, but I assume that in the same way, it will make an analogue suggestion to amend the Implementing Law. My colleague Peric said that law enforcement of legal persons will also be stopped because the law on the implementation of monetary tasks has not been resolved. Well, that's really great, so everyone will be protected from the executive procedures during this crisis which is normal, realistic, which is rational, and which is in line with the time we live in where we really are in crisis and citizens and businesses, no one is working at all, some are not working at all, therefore, something is expected and something like that has to be carried out. I now have to re-emphasise the great need for the law to order banks to offer non-proliferation citizens and non-proliferation businesses of moratorium to collect annuities from loans without interest. We have tried this several times in the last two, three weeks to resolve it as an opposition, but it has not passed. In general, anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or acceptable to them but with a delay which is the same, I have no problem with it. I have no problem with when I propose something to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia only does the same thing later, because even when I propose something, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, if it agrees with such a proposal to carry out some of the interventions that are needed and then proposes it in a way that it will be acceptable to everyone. So I hope that this set of laws proposed by counterpart Petrov in one part of the government of the Republic of Croatia will also be accepted in the coming days. I hope that's the way it's gonna be, and it's not bad, it's good. It is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the opposition's proposals in such a way as to propose them, it is okay and it is a way to achieve some kind of co-operation between the opposition and the authorities, which is otherwise not a common case in HS. So, only now that we have experienced a real crisis that is beating the whole society, is it now that we have experienced that there is still cooperation that is not visible at first sight between the opposition and the government because a lot of what the opposition has proposed has nevertheless been accepted by the government and on that side it is commendable. But I'm stressing, the part about the moratorium on loan payments has to be implemented because it's not normal for banks to only make money in times of crisis, it's not normal. And I repeat, the banks had 17 billion kunas in 2004 and 10 billion kunas in liquidity, and now they have 59 billion kunas in capital and 44 billion kunas in liquidity, so banks can go half a year without a problem, and for a year let's say the burden of not making money on loans, especially if we know that the banks have unfairly acquired 20 billion kunas that they still hold in their hands over the last 15 years. Here I can finally say that we will accept the laws proposed by fellow Petrov and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do what it has already said it will do through its spokesmen here in HS and will also make that last effort and order banks to offer to all non-equivocal citizens and non-equivocal businesses moratorium to pay off loans without any interest and no cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201713	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201714	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the club of HSS and the Democrats will support this bill which Mr. Bozo Petrov and the club MOST have addressed in the procedure because we believe that the opposition and we who have supported the proposal for measures, first of all, when it comes to the safety of the health care of citizens, and here we welcome all the measures that have been taken and here we see that they produce good results. We also supported the proposal for measures to support the economy and we have the right to speak our mind, to question these measures and to implement them, of course, and to propose them. And certainly we must once again point out that if the real goal is to preserve every job in Croatia, to preserve the economy, to create an equal chance for citizens for a better life, then we must certainly discuss and we must propose and we must say that the government has reacted too late. That's what I said a month ago, and now I repeat it, and evidence that the Association of Tree Workers has sent a letter to the Government and warned of changes in the market that orders have been cut, there will be a crisis and that there will be job layoffs that must be reacted urgently. It was late, especially as it went in March with that package of measures where something would be delayed and only then would the proposals of the entrepreneurs' vote and us from the opposition be accepted that it could not only go with the delay but must go with write-off and direct financial support. One such delay results in more than 23,000 newly unemployed persons registered to HZZ. The question is, what about them? Yeah, it's nice to hear about 480,000 saved jobs, but what about these 23,000? Do they have the right to live, do they have the right not to be blocked, do they have the right to provide their family with a quality of life? Why was it late and did employers return them to their jobs and use the measures of April? This information has not been received and I would like to receive that information as to how many of these workers have been returned to their jobs and whose employers have consumed this measure. What is crucial is that there are many among them young people, young people who have been to a certain time and who are now at the Employment Service without any income because they do not have the right to compensation from the Employment Service because they do not have enough work experience. How are we going to help them? Among them are many of us from Slavonia who were the most common seasonal workforce in tourism and other service activities, how will they be helped? And what I want especially to point out here is that Slavonia suffers the greatest damage caused by the coronary virus because the figures that the Regional Employment Service Osijek published for March for March that 17,202 unemployed persons were recorded at the employment office, which for 1756 new people is more than 35.8% more than last year in March. 35% more than last March, these are terrible numbers. And it's not right that the region that has otherwise suffered from eviction is now suffering from the coronary virus because young people have lost their jobs and cannot find a new job because the crisis is still going on and the real question is how to help them and how to help Slavonia. Of course we're in favour, too, and we're talking about not doing it while this crisis is, not dissuading while this crisis is. This part of the law we passed last week solves only two-thirds of citizens. What about that one-third that wasn't solved? We insist that this executive law come into debate tomorrow so that we can help these people too. And that's why we say that it's been late and that we're constantly coughing for the measures that we should bring, and people are suffering. We are also actively in favour of the opposition to pass a moratorium law on loans because it must not be the government and by ruling to protect banks at the expense of citizens. I think that first of all we have to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the other governments and other states, the sea and the Republic of Croatia, and we have to tell the banks the strength of power, you've been showing profits in business in the Republic of Croatia for years, and you've earned that profit outside of Croatia, it is now time to pay back not to return them but to earn less money in the coming period, and thus enable citizens not to be blocked and to serve all their obligations. Today is Planet Earth Day and I want to congratulate everyone on that day, and how important it is to mention climate change as much as possible, the impact on the lives of all of us and the economy, it says that the European Commission has also adopted a green plan and what Europe should be until 2050. And what's particularly interesting these days, which is that a team of 200 politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs who have launched the Green Lift action where they want a new perspective on the future through the transformation of the economy. Here's a quote from their letter "The transformation into an economy that will be favourable to climate, biodiversity protection and the different orientation of agrarian and food industries provide an opportunity for the rapid creation of jobs and growth and can contribute to the creation of greater resilience of society". Croatia should be involved in this project and must surely find its place and Croatian agriculture, processing industry, food production in Croatia. What have we done for agriculture through these measures? Some 5.6.7 laws have been amended to add an additional 52.5 million kuna for measures to support agriculture plus 2.5 million kuna for the intervention purchase of milk. And I told the minister it's too small, I expect you to perform stronger and more aggressively in protecting agriculture and promoting agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and you will have our support if you ask for more funds. Last week, the Commissioner of the European Commission for Agriculture also invited European members and the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture to report because there are still 6 billion euros that we can contact with our projects and programmes for rural development and support for agriculture. I asked and asked again, what does the Minister do, what does the Ministry do, what does the Government do to attract these funds and help agriculture because these 52 million kunas are too little? Too little because only for flowering is isolated, for the production of flowers in the Republic of Croatia 1 million kuna. What's he doing with $1 million? You can heat six cans. What about the others? Why even closed markets and thus disabled the sale of agricultural products to our OPGs while these same products could be bought in trade chains, but from imports and there was no social distance. And behold, wonders, after pressure from the public and opposition, and us from HSS are reopened markets, but then stricter measures are ordered to sell agricultural products on the market than in trade chains. This is not support for agriculture and we need to turn more actively towards agriculture and agricultural policies and through land policy to finally keep every hectare quiet. Now here is the seed spring, unfortunately in the drought and with the cold. No direct payments from the Association of Agricultural Producers have been paid and we from the HSS have asked to be paid by 15 April, the minister said will pay at the end of April in early May. I don't have any information on whether the payments have started, but here today I've been called by some agricultural producers and they haven't yet been paid into their accounts, and here I am publicly calling on the minister to pay off everything immediately tomorrow because people are sowing, they need those funds. Also when it comes to regulation of the market and buyout, it is not enough just to buy milk and these 2.5 million kunas, we are asking for the purchase of surpluses in pigmeat in the bull's-eye because they have lost customers. The winemakers also have a problem, they don't know where they're going with the wine, and we see what happens with the strawberries that the shoppers take the kamak, and our farmers get a minimum. Here's just one example, one trade chain offered to a salad manufacturer 50 limes per head of salad sold at 5.6 kuna in trade chains. If this is a market relationship, it cannot be a market relationship and it cannot be accepted by our agricultural producers. And I think we have to do everything possible to raise agricultural production, not to reduce support for multi-annual plantations, for nuts and nuts planted in organic production where people have invested millions of kunas now the minister reduces support for multi-annual plantations. It's not support in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201715	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201716	Thank you very much. Dear Representative of the Government. I know you're bored, and I can see you've had a little bit of trouble, but these suggestions are very important. I believe that the proposals made by the MOST Club and Bozo Petrov are simply necessary at this point for Croatian citizens and I think that if we are calling for equality, solidarity, for help, for a moment for which the citizens are not guilty but are as guilty as I said, they have revealed essentially the crown virus has revealed essentially all the bad policies that have been guided by all the resources and on all the issues, and, above all, from the centre of the initiative that we have been doing so far, was not at the heart of the chocolates. The man wasn't in the center and it's visible now. This is also evident in these proposed amendments to the executive law, of all our laws, but I will talk about what is currently most important, which is self-sufficiency, it is the protection of sovereignty and national interests. MOST here was basically this paradigm now you're all taking over and it's commendable, but you don't know how to find a model without a PR how to do it so during the National Civil Protection Centre you're hiding. MOST has proposed here in this House very important laws, examples for the preservation of our territory, i.e. the declaration of the exclusive economic belt. You didn't accept that. This would protect our fish fund and our resources, and thus preserve the survival of our fishermen and food production and all that it causes. However, it was similar with agriculture, i.e. agricultural production. I proposed banning GMOs, imports, transport, planting and sales, and I specifically suggested that we encourage domestic producers. The processing of our agricultural land, 700,000 hectares of agricultural land is unprocessed and I have now given the law to amend the Law on Agricultural Land is divided in two years by 400,000 hectares of state land somewhere around tens of thousands of hectares because the measures are due to local self-government, the mayor must give consent. And I will always repeat the mayor's control and here it has come to this law that the counties are excess of the counties partly brake, they do not give consent to the good part. County's a brake. So the ministry according to local self-government, and this local self-government has to stop the county from signing this consent, that's what you're talking about. A glass wheel, each one holds. And everything you call decentralisation and everything these county damages have done, here's to agriculture, I'll talk about my county, here's a colleague from Slavonia, a colleague to confirm it. Since they've been in my Split-Dalmatia county, the stock fund has been destroyed, my Sinjsko polje is destroyed, it's not irritable or what it's done, and now that I'm listening to Mayor Boban's measures yesterday economically after what he did to us with his man who he named it. Ante Sanader entered the virus and will now delay our tourist season and measures because the virus entered the nursing home because this man who is head of the nursing home of the former mayor of Omis, this man was certainly in the middle of a loss, even I did not want to vote in the assembly, brought this home into losses. So what happens now? Now they're going to have to extend the season, and the agricultural land remains unprocessed and now some measures in the cattle, in the potatoes, and when I was saying here that the triba is working agricultural land for me, Bačić Ante is the main right hand, the postman of Ante Sanader, the chief postman said that I am a choban. Yeah, I'm a nerd, I'm a peasant. Now, Andrej Plenkovic's missing the paradigm, his colleagues from HDZ, they're all passing the paradigm. Now the triba is working on agricultural land. Well, of course, we don't have to if we have to import the frozen pasta for the pastry and we don't have to do the pomidor if it's a blue field, Cetina flows through it, so of course it's healthy logical. Not a tribune of great wit. And I got into politics because of those who sold out the gold that sold out our land, who didn't declare an exclusive economic belt, I'm an ear for them. They're all academically educated, you're all highly educated, and you're to blame for this situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201717	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201718	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are over 185,000 pensioners living in Croatia who have a pension of less than 1000 kuna, and 70,000 live in Croatia as well. As they welcomed Easter and whether these measures proposed by the Government were complete and how they spent Easter holidays, and since many pensioners who have and perform for HRT subscription continue to be removed by HZMO because they were not stopped in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201719	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201720	Look, colleague Cikotic, you've now given the laws, not so long ago, before the crown crisis on maternity benefits that would solve the problem of our births and increase the meaning of our problem, this bad policy would have been solved according to particularly rural areas, and the demographic picture would certainly have been corrected if it had been listened to. But now they hear and they would do it all and they would now feel that before they drag the mayor, Sanader, Pavic his spokesman, more is given to the PR in Split's Dalmatian county if he had given these pensioners and those men who were completed would have saved them. For the PR, millions have been invested mainly since I've been in the congregation, then they give what's more to the PR so they can invest in everything, then they come in those uniforms as folk heroes, I guess they're getting caught for not being much in the war, and then they come in and talk about what kind of measures they're going to take right now. And then there's the tribune clapping from the window that they put the virus in our extensions and what they've destroyed all of us. That's why we're calling off the county and there's gonna be money for farmers and for childbirth.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201721	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201722	Thank you. In your debate, you pointed out the need to invest in support of agriculture, and here I keep pointing out that also we from HSS because we believe that these 52.5 million kunas are too little to support agriculture, and we expected that 52 million kuna ministers will also make up through business savings, through administrative savings and reduction of material costs, and we are surprised by this, at this point in the making of a new rules on direct payments and IACS measures that reduce direct payments for multi-annual plantations of leaks, nuts and others. Somewhere around 14,000 acres is under the multi-year plantations of hazelnuts and nuts and it is only for Slavonia 15 million kunas less. Instead of reducing the number of cars and phone costs, direct payments are reduced. It's really not what the agricultural producers expected from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201723	Dear Representative Bulj, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201724	I agree. You Slavons and you, my colleagues, you know, you know what the country means, and we of the Dalmatian Zagora know what it means to be a stingy country that has fed generations and that have survived in these areas, but here, Stjepan Radic would say that famous goose-poo in the fog, and this crown crisis has exposed all the bad policies, mainly to the village and peasants, the wrong policies. Import lobbys have torn apart the domestic producer, destroyed, we have simply been brought into that position that our fruit trees in Vrgorec drank their peaches and their fruit and their vineyards while importing grapes from Serbia, Macedonia are much worse quality, and so is the example in Slavonia with your seedlings and the farmers they are dealing with. So at this point, it's obvious that absolutely wrong policies, courtships, are mostly import lobbys. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201725	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201726	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At this point we know that half a million people in Croatia are using compensations secured through HZZ, so the crisis doesn't last a month, since 19.3. and now half a million, so we have those who use those fees. This means that our economy is extremely weak, so we are insufferable. Also, I read the other day that 950,000 passes were issued. So we're very territorially fragmented, so we have a lot of management, that it's a huge bureaucratic apparatus, and in fact everything that needs to be changed in Croatia has been discovered. It has also been discovered that we are not self-sufficient in food, so we need to increase agricultural production, and we need to focus money on the finalisation of products and strengthen some of the other things that we have, like the wood industry. To the wood industry in the 2020 budget, you gave an incentive of a million kuna. Is that enough to mean investing in modernization in wood industry production plants? Of course not. Also, women who are currently using parental leave address me daily. They have three, two or more children. There's no school, no kindergarten, no maternity leave, and they're getting their parents' leave now, so who's he gonna leave the kids for? It has also proved several times that the labour market, that women on it are discriminated against. Women work for lower incomes, women work shorter than they do because they take over the role of nurse in families and when it comes to children and when it comes to older households, and you do not use what you have at your disposal, and this is the government's decision of 2 April 2020, which has stopped all public calls, all purchases from all sources of funding. So there are no European calls either. We hear here that there is a need to invest in agriculture, that agriculture is important, and what happens to measures, measure 6.2 postponed for young farmers, investment in non-agricultural activities, measure 6.4 is waiting for 2 years, delayed, an integral measure, here I see the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Economy and entrepreneurship here, delayed. I also watch what happens in the European Commission. He says we've adjusted the corona contests to the crisis, all the contests are going. So, as you HZZ has digitized the procedures and people have been able to apply through applications, the same should be done with EU funds. We cannot stop the wheel, which is an economy, an economic activity that will ensure the state's smooth functioning and also an inflow into the state budget because investment will take place. How will we ensure after 6 months if the tourist season is missing in retirement for our pensioners? As far as HZMO is concerned, it continues to carry out the duties on pensioners because there has not been any changes and additions to the Executive Act before us. Likewise, those who have been blocked earlier, and the employer's performance is still under wraps. As for schools and grading themselves, a lot of questions come to me from that side. The students are very concerned and disappointed. How? Because their success and their knowledge depend not on themselves but on the social opportunities they find themselves in, it means their families. If this mother and that father, if your parents have enough time, means his mother may be working all day long, may be a cashier, the father may be a doctor, so they do not have when to devote themselves to the child’s tasks and did everything on time. And there are those who are threatened, and these are children who are meant to be together 300,000 people are in poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Some of them know how many use free meals at school, some according to research and the only meal. All these children are now in families, so you need to take care of them. I hope those measures will come soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201727	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201728	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, the simple question is why HDZ does not give up on this territorial concept in the Republic of Croatia, and you yourself said how many municipalities are in crisis here, has now proved to be essentially how useless or dysfunctional the system is that people could not from the municipality to the municipality, so they could not even perform the most basic needs that as citizens should have been able to restore. But that answer is probably in what most of these municipalities and counties of HDZ hold as their lazy for various Scissors who then have to nest somewhere, catch and thus operate the entire system. And instead of taking this chance on reform, I'm afraid that HDZ is just the opposite of interest, so that everything stays the way it is. So when you look at it now, let's say the government's representatives are sitting here, and no one even said "a" on your proposals, that's enough for you. What HDZ thinks about institutions, about the system and how they see it all together. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201729	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201730	As far as territorial structure is concerned, of course, it is ineffective, because of this epidemic, countless of these passes that have actually been issued, and they are not issued because people have to go to the central hospital for some examination, but simply in their municipalities they do not have a bank, in their municipalities they do not have a certain institution that is at the lowest level of the pharmacy, they do not have a pharmacy in their municipality. So these people wanted to go to the pharmacy and that's why a pass was to be issued. What worries me the most is that surely there will be a change, only to me it seems that we no longer have time. So it's clear to all of us here that there's going to be a change, it's just a matter of when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201731	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic came forward with a replica to express his disagreement with your opinion that the use of measures to preserve jobs in Croatia, according to which about half a million workers will use this measure, is a sign d is a weak economy. You literally said that. I must tell you that a large number of entrepreneurs who have applied for this subsidy have a very good balance to support their job, they are very liquid and we cannot place them in a group of weak entrepreneurs, but in each activity there are those who are successful and those who are unsuccessful, but the labour ban measure applies to both the other and whatever the financial situation they are in. Therefore, that argument does not stand, and later on, when it is individual, I will speak more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201733	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201734	Dear counterpart Bacic, so I didn't literally mean that these entrepreneurs were weak, but that they were insufferable meanings to external influences. Also, half a million workers today use this measure, it says that they don't actually have and don't want their own liquidity that they acquired earlier years used to preserve jobs. I want to know what happens if the coronary this epidemic would take six months or more. Can the state endure long enough to secure liquidity for these entrepreneurs? Is this measure if it lasts longer and longer, if it were long-term, is it sustainable for the Republic of Croatia? Also, many entrepreneurs, or workers, appear and say that some measures have not even been taken because, in fact, the entrepreneur has been blocked to a certain extent as a legal person and has been removed by the same blockade. So that's where we proposed this law on financial performance, on the financial assets implemented by FINA to include legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201735	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Sladoljev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow citizens, it is very difficult to bend this 9 law in 5 minutes of debate, so I will concentrate on the set of laws and I will talk about changing the paradigm and that we will actually propose these laws for the purpose of raising awareness to the citizens that the policy that has so far ruled should be changed. So at the beginning of this debate, I will focus on here one, and I can tell you a religious fact, which is that the ancient Greeks had a god of right or happy moment, so this god Cairos was this god who passed through the cities and he had a naked head, only had one plugper so behind which you could catch him, and if you didn't catch him for that plug he passed so that God of the right and happy moment passed and you could never catch him again. I would say that despite this crisis, we have begun to notice things and that it is time to capture this God of the right moment and change the paradigm of politics towards everything. From relations to our accomplished and blocked citizens, from relations to entrepreneurs, to farmers, to people who earn their bread, to the unemployed, to people who have moved out of Croatia. So the whole policy needs to be restarted and should actually start over. Because what we have now, and this shows economic indicators that we are not, no country has been prepared for this crisis, but this crisis has rocked Croatia's policy to the end. From the fact that we have developed our entire economic growth on tourism even though we have been warned by economists that the country which makes its entire economic growth and the whole economy based on tourism itself is a branch which is this floating one, which can disappear very quickly, that it is not good. From the relationship to the young, therefore, people who were actually evicting, and 1,000 and 1,000 people were evicting, and they were dealing with the blocked and the executed. So now is the chance to change these policies, that this crisis teaches us that we haven't all done well together, so we try to find a solution together so that our citizens can make this crisis easier and better. And all of our legal proposals are in good interest, and I don't see any reason why they were welcomed by the ruling on the knife and that the government wasn't very clear about it because of all the legal proposals that the government has made here in the assembly and which, for us, some of them were good, we discussed them, made our position. So, it's important to talk about problems, so it's important to find a solution together, it's important that we don't get involved politically, and it's important to send a message to Croatian citizens that we are there for them, and that, despite the crisis, that we can make a turn in our country through legal solutions and policy changes, so that we become a state that will run policies differently, which will lead to more interest in those so small people who are the biggest hit in this crisis, and not those who will profit in this crisis, and these are banks or other sectors. So we were not elected by the banks in this assembly by the Croatian citizens and what we want to send and this set of laws is a message that they are small people, so those who will suffer most are actually on our minds and that we want to help them. So it's important to point out in these 4-5 minutes that I've had and here I am open to all constructive proposals and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201737	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201738	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I am interested in your opinion which is why not a single proposal, here is a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who have not accepted it, and there were certainly 20 of them, some of them have modified it, they are calling for a community, they are calling us not to be critical but to help when people help, when they propose nothing at the end. So in the end there's no, there's no desire at all, so you see government representatives, you've put nine proposals here somewhere, one assistant minister sits there and shuts up all the time, nobody says anything, we've got two debates in front of HDZ, and that's where they'll say you had a chance to work without doing anything when you were in power. So, on the other hand, it's all a fig in your pocket. So there's no sincere desire to do anything together or to listen to suggestions and accept opposition proposals. It is impossible that out of 20 proposals none of them were of any quality and could not have been accepted, and this is where HDZ would have shown a certain The width, but that width is unfortunately gone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201739	Honorable representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201740	Dear colleague Maras, therefore, that we have all the time of calling for a community, calling for a profession, and when professional proposals are so called into the assembly, and when it is discussed, they either reject the ruling majority's representatives or the government doesn't show up at all. But we would even be happy if they would not therefore respect our suggestions but would classify them in the exact same way or the same as theirs. Let them politically point at it, let them publicly say so we've made for the finished, blocked and that, let them accept ours as their own, here's the example. was with the Microsolars Act, when they prescribed 70% of our Microsolars Act because we pressured them so much, here, now this law is better than before so let them do so with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201741	The next replica is the respected representative of Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201742	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Sladolev, I, like you, like my colleague Maras, and as many colleagues here until 2, 3 days ago, also wondered why the ruling HDZ does not accept any proposal from the opposition, although they are calling for community all the time, we speak together, we are all in this, it is not time for politicizing, here we are called by HDZ leaders to politicize, that we want now, I don't know, to collect some cheap points, but from 2 days ago I am no longer surprised at it. After Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he was basically the Chief of Staff and that it was essentially a political decision and that this political body came from the government and that it was not, to quote it, that it fell from Mars, then it was clear to me. This is essentially for them all the time politics and in such politics they run their own politics and care about our politics and citizens. So, after 2 days, the picture became much clearer and much clearer, and then it's clear why this last package of economic measures, let's say, presented to their coalition partners, and they didn't. all parliamentary parties. So things are much clearer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201743	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201744	Well, here's a respected colleague, so I don't know what they'd really like. They would probably want us to sit there in the Parliament, raise our hands for their laws, not question any decisions, but not one, not to think for ourselves, to commend, and when we are actually proposing legislative proposals, then orderly refuse them, when we criticise something, and common sense says it's not all good, then we're not constructive, then we're not good again, so they just want us to raise our hands like they do, and to take everything for granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201745	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also say that we are witnessing a crisis that is unremembered in the world, in Europe, and so in Croatia. And that we are faced with the consequences of this same crisis that we will endure for a long time. We can confirm that all the strong, rich countries of Europe are just going through the most difficult moments of their economic crisis at a time when we all here and in this HS have taken them as examples of a functionally organised state, countries that have implemented reforms and that we should see. So the fact that both Croatia and Croatia are going through and have great consequences, the biggest consequences of Europe and the strongest countries, from Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, the UK, Spain, so all those countries that are powerful, financially stable, which ultimately and founded the EU, are going through a major crisis, how the health crisis, where the coronavirus, the COVID-19 disease, has been brought down with the greatest consequences, even more than the states that we have perceived as countries, less developed, unreformed, which are not at the level that is in Europe. Through this crisis, Croatia has shown itself, as much as we would like to admit or not at some time, as a state that is functional, whose health system can be better dealt with by such consequences of the crisis than those of the country that we were taking as an example until yesterday. I would say that Croatia responded extremely well, and that, in order to meet this challenge, it was a assumption of political stability, which is stability... economic stability, which then resulted in a drop in interest, the strength of Croatian entrepreneurs, the resulting reduction in the number of unemployed, the increase in the number of employees, the charge of the budget, the fact that we took care of public finances, that we had a surplus budget, that we had an increase in investment rating, that we had returned it to the level of credit rating, investment credit rating, and that all of this was a result of the fact that Croatia was a regulated state that could prescribe certain measures that were going towards Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs for the preservation of their business activities, for their liquidity, for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we were able to do this in a way that we singled out in relation to the GDP level somewhere around 9.5 to 10% of the total Croatian GDP, which put us at the top of the EU countries when it comes to the allocation of public funds towards the real sector so that the real sector would remain on its feet, and this was calibrated in a way that these measures that the Government had prescribed and which we had brought in the HS were precisely such as to make Croatia sustainable even after the crisis. It's easy at this point to prescribe measures from one, I've said it many times, benefits of opposition and compete in measures that will give more. However, the question on the other hand is to ask where these funds come from, and are we going to put such measures as we have prescribed, where we would release everything, where we would abolish everything, where we would prescribe much greater separation from the state budget or from even more debt, we would do more damage the day after, when the crisis is over, when a cure for the crown is found, or for COVID-19? Will we then be able to be on the same level as we are today with the government's measures, that is a fundamental issue. Whether we wish to agree, to send messages that are sometimes beautiful for the ear to every average Croatian citizen, which I do not doubt, that they are happy and that people want to hear them, but should have the responsibility of leading the state, to know that what we do, it must have a response in public finances, in state financing, in financing the public sector, etc., etc. I therefore believe that, that the measures proposed by the Government had their financial impact, and I would like that we, when we, when our friends from MOST or from opposition wrote these laws, had certainly stated what this would mean in a financial sense in times after this crisis. This is what I was going to say, therefore, that Croatia proved to be a functional state on the one hand and on the other hand, that the measures prescribed a way to maintain the Croatian economy, that it would be sustainable even after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201747	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201748	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bačić, you mentioned how much the state is now in these moments and in these last 3 years fiscally able to withstand all these blows, so here I also mentioned that the government has found within the budget of the current 2.1 billion kuna, which in fact has been able to redistribute additional funds to help provide support and make it possible for both entrepreneurs and citizens and the complete system to actually start an initial means that can help workers and thus actually keep the economy alive and prepare it for the period when it is due to start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201749	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201750	Thank you, sir. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, therefore, you are right, by redistributing the positions of the state budget, will be a significant part of the allocation for these half a million workers who will receive support for keeping their jobs, under the state budget. However, it should also be pointed out that due to these other measures where they are exempt from paying income taxes, income taxes and such contributions and where, some will be, they will be completely released and some will have a flat-rate payment, at this point the state budget is not charged at 1/3 of the amount for the same time last year. Therefore, we have increased expenditures and on the other hand we have significantly reduced revenues. And that balance was necessary and the government adopted measures on that balance. And that's what we have to pass on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201751	The next is a replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201752	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said it was easy to propose measures that make citizens sound nice and acceptable and how citizens are being hunted and that, on the other hand, we, as an opposition, should have responsibility as well as the Government so that we are responsible for proposing measures that do not have an impact on the state budget more than I can have, so I understood it. Well, I'm just asking you to explain to me, is there such a collegiate measure that can easily reach people's ears, our proposal for a moratorium on loans for a year? and would that, would that be an irresponsible proposal that would affect the state budget then and how much would the state suffer because of such a measure and because of such a proposal, or who would benefit? Would it be acceptable to accept, benefit from citizens and a little less benefit from a bank that can withstand it precisely because of what they have said in recent years of business so they have been given a condition that they have had good liquidity and good income, I think I can endure it for a year or so, I would ask you to comment on these measures. Is that one out-of-state measure that would have damaged the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201753	Dear Representative Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coli Đujic, so I said the measures with which the Government came out in both the March and April package, and I think that with these measures we have found a way to maintain the budget, public finances and help entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to banks, yes, banks must bear the same burden as all Croatian entrepreneurs, the same burden, nothing less, even bigger because they are financially the most liquid, the most capable and they can handle it. And I'm holding that with this proposal, 3+3 in which banks will create a moratorium, it's affected. But as I know, you know that, too, the CNB has arranged a moratorium with the banks for 12 months. I know a large number of entrepreneurs, I've been communicating with them and preparing for this debate, which has already signed the moratorium for 12 months. There's no tight interest, there's no solemnization, and the interest is being calculated for now, and I'm holding that those interest will not be charged, but that they'll be accounted for later in the next wars in a way that reduces them, and that's where we're on the same track, and I don't see any differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201755	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter now will speak to the respected representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201756	Dear fellow MPs, colleague. I still haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to take these measures except for one that you've mentioned to Mr. Bačić, that's a financial reason, but that's what I'm going to come up with in this brief presentation. So I haven't heard a single reason why you don't want to help people, which is why you don't want to protect them as well as you should. Why won't you oblige the bank's law to bring a moratorium to credits and citizens and entrepreneurs for the duration of this epidemic without interest? Why don't you want to cancel your flat tax? Why don't you want to cancel membership fees for HGK, for tourist communities when they don't already have a purpose? Why don't you want to cancel the profit tax fee? I haven't heard a good reason, but the way you're criticizing our proposals today, so you've done it and two weeks full of it the first time we've brought them out here, then after two weeks you've come and all of what we've proposed all of a sudden there's money, all of a sudden it all made sense, you've had your PR machine, so I hope you'll do the same thing, it'll be the third time, again in two, three weeks. And everything's fine, but I'd love for the citizens to happen. And as for this financial reason you mentioned, that's exactly what the government hasn't done yet, which I think is another thing that's irresponsible except for this first thing. It is irresponsible to take measures that the government itself says count in 10 billion kunas without us knowing the financial plan. How's that gonna cover up? There are ten billion kunas being talked about, and the finance minister came out and said the total savings they found in all the ministries were 2 billion kuna. Math isn't right. I don't understand how you can give under the quotes of a 10 billion, and save only 2 billion, who will cover, how you will be covered, or are on the trail of some colleagues who advocate printing money. Well, it's no problem, you just have to say it. And if you didn't, then you would suggest one very important thing is to rebalance the budget. In such an accident that is almost at the border of the state of emergency not to rebalance the state budget is quite irresponsible behavior or you don't want to rebalance the budget so we don't find out how much money is missing and how many cuts you still need to do and you don't want to work out. But what is not just irresponsible behavior, if you are doing this from calculations, if you are not giving a financial plan, if you are not going out with the budget rebalance from the calculations to make it easier for you to go to elections, if you are putting into calculations and at risk the future of 4 million people in Croatia for the success of your party, if you have subordinated the future of almost 4 million people in Croatia to one political site, then it is no longer irresponsible, it is miraculous. And there is absolutely no economist in Croatia who will confirm your position that in this situation no rebalancing should be done, that in this situation the Government should not come up with a financial plan. So come out with a financial plan, come out with a rebalance, and then confirm exactly what you said, no money for your proposals, but they're great. Here's what I'm asking you to do, and I think this is a normal debate. If your argument stands, come out with an argument, come out with a financial plan, come out with a budget rebalance that's responsible behavior, that's what we expect, don't calculate with the entire state, with 4 million people to make it easier for the election. And especially, now I'm going to take advantage of the situation don't do it so you don't put in an electronic vote and give all people a chance. to participate in the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201757	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrov will kill you hard words, let them down a little so that it doesn't end up being pathetic. So, as far as the funds are concerned, only this half a million employee measure is paid to them over 2 billion kunas a month, it's just that you're talking about what money it is, it's just this measure because somewhere around 5,600 when direct donations plus contributions are summed up so much per employee. However, these are not the only costs of colleagues, you well know whether the state said it would free the pay of income tax, income tax and contribute to all those whose turnover is below 50% and their annual income is less than EUR 1 million. So when you add those entrepreneurs next to them, and these are 93% in Croatia, including those who also suffer damage but will be released only in percentage of how much traffic they have lost, you will already come to the data with which the finance minister came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201759	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201760	Representative Bačić, the state needs to behave in solidarity at this time, it needs to change the paradigm, these are your words, should be fair to all and if one is helped one should be helped all. The state needs to show that it's there for people, not for itself. And if there was money, you asked how not to propose the opposition, he proposed an opposition to you, cut yourself, cut yourself 500 and some unnecessary municipalities, cut the county, cut their companies, their utility companies, the state-owned companies have 1300 which, in minority ownership, cut the agencies, cut the institutions, there's money, but you won't be touched. You will redistribute and save a total of 2 billion kuna. The financial plan will not be presented, the rebalancing will not be made, you will hurry to the elections, obviously, to the harm of the citizens. It's not fair. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201761	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201762	Thank you very much. Col. Petrov, indeed, now this pandemic has shown all the bad decisions and policies towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and basically my colleague Branko Bačić has admitted that they were bad policies because it is obvious that there are no funds for what they should be, and that for the counties that would have been suspended now, yesterday, the approach, 20 years ago, have not been abolished, why, it is easy for you to answer because it is their electoral nucleus and fostering people into the county, institutions, agencies, who know how many of these are no longer known or number, it is their nuclear electoral potential. And they will not touch it, they would rather evict all of Croatia to Ireland, Germany, than touch the counties and local self-governments that are exclusively their means of nucleus for the election. Here, so I'd like to ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201763	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201764	Please, I am sorry that Mr. Bacic has just come out I would like to ask him what with 100 new employees in just the first two months in several counties, if not in all counties in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you're talking about. To 100 new employees in only the first two months. I expect from them a plan, a financial plan, I expect a rebalancing, I expect them to bear together with us politicians a burden of crisis, to be solid. And I also expect that after all this, they will be fair and correct towards people and make it possible for them to vote electronically, so if they have done so much and can't do it anymore, people will appreciate it, they have nothing to fear, but all the people in Croatia should be able to vote whenever elections happen, now, in a few months, for a year, they have the right to vote and not to be afraid to go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201765	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say briefly at the beginning of my debate that it wouldn't be right or fair to say that all the measures that the government has taken in this period are not good and that they've done everything wrong and it's just not true, but that's not what we've been saying since the beginning, so all the time what's good to praise, what's not good, let's try to point out. I'm sorry that at first we were welcomed immediately on the knife as malts you must not criticise anything, you must not say anything, and I am sorry that the opposition is no longer involved in the adoption of these measures and in the joint decision on the fate of all of us because this is a question I will repeat here for who knows which time, the question of all the citizens of the Republic, not just the right or left or the other and not the other. So, this is a question of all of us, and I think we should have all been included in this story a little bit more, and then there wouldn't have been a debate on the SDP package proposal two weeks ago, we wouldn't have written further new proposals, we probably wouldn't have discussed today this proposal from MOST colleagues that the government, I'm not going to tell the government, that by sitting together with the representatives of all the parties in Croatia and that we all sat down together and said look, this is good, this isn't good, this isn't real, we can't here, we can't, we're going to spend it together. And of course this crisis is one that has never happened in our lives, we young people are sure and we don't remember this crisis in our space for long and what's worst in this crisis is that we don't know much about it, we don't even know how it's going to affect, in which direction it's going to move. And therefore the decisions taken by the Government all the time should be corrected, the trefa refresh, so some new things should be made, and every little bit of a new problem that could not have been foreseen, and I want to use this debate today to point out a problem which we, for example, indicated two or three days ago by winemakers in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, it is known that small wineries, for example, know that the season is in danger and that practically in the area of the county from which I come, the Primorje-goranska, the Istrian but generally throughout the coast, the season usually starts already for Easter, and that is already behind us, and it is essentially uncertain when our season will begin and what it will be and how much traffic will be. Now a large part of the small winemakers in my county distribute their wines right into hotels, restaurants and restaurants that have been closed for some time now and have mostly fallen to them, their traffic has fallen tremendously. And they say openly, that there was no government measure to preserve jobs of 4000 kn net, or 5200 gross, to fail at the moment. And it's a great relief for them to even exist now, but we're told to be quick to impose a new problem. So, for the month, two of us have to invest significant funds and hire new people to prepare vineyards for harvesting in the fall. And we're not sure that with current incomes at 25% compared to last year, power will last. The second thing, the new problem that comes after the harvest in the 9th or 10th months. is a supply of wine, about as much as the one with the oil. So, they don't have a new wine where they store any more, and if the state doesn't jump in with any measures and now they mention, okay, maybe it's incomparable, how the state is currently buying milk, grains, and things like that, it's hard because milk and those groceries are the ones that people really need, the wine isn't so necessary, but the winemakers are saying, look why the state wouldn't buy a piece, we're in trouble, we don't have a place to store it, we're going to lose the story, and one big part of those little ones are actually in front of a serious problem that they might be permanent and shut down. I mean, it's a problem that'll hit the big winemakers but these little ones especially. Here I am today using this situation to warn here today perhaps of this problem, in the next period I will try to warn as often as possible, the more I will ask a parliamentary question which I would not call even a question but it is one possibility for some form of agriculture minister to point out this problem and I think we still have enough time together to maybe deal with it in a month, two days and help these people in the interest and Croatia because this winemaking is a Croatian tradition and I think we are good at it and it would be a shame to lose it. And here, it's a constructive proposal and it doesn't mean that the government has done anything about it so far, here's the people themselves saying, this 4,000 kn has been done a lot, but we're already appealing to the help that we're going to need very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201767	Thank you very much. Now re-respected representative Sasa Djujic, will speak on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually going to sum up, but I've already summed up one piece through an individual debate, so nothing, here's short, on behalf of the club I appeal once again to the ruling one, so this is neither the last proposals nor the government measures that have been adopted so far the last measures that will be taken and here, once again I really appeal on behalf of the SDP club, we constructively and well-meaningly and colleagues with these proposals from MOST that are, for example. 2 weeks ago. In the process, together with ours, ours have been discussed, we're only discussing these now. Here's an appeal to the ruling, let us once again understand that we are your partners, that we want to talk, that we want to make our contribution not because we, I don't know, think that we are smarter than you but because we think that this is all about us and that two heads are smarter than one and that we can all make a contribution on this matter. And I think it's about time we sat down at the table, that Mr. Plenkovic had a little bit of his ego and, like some others, and that here we were, trying to sit down in the interests of the citizens who are most concerned about this. With these measures, the government has helped the economy, in part helped, and I would not point out this story of half a million workers who will receive this measure of government, I would rather use that number of 90 000 employers because they are not all the same, because there are people there like my colleague Bačić, who are doing well and who have good liquidity and theoretically were able to withstand this crisis on their own without this help, but let's say I know a few, and I appreciate that they got 4,000 kn net from the government and that they didn't cut their salaries but kept them at 5, 6, 7 or 8. And such should be highlighted, and they should be helped independently of what they may have endured. But also a lot of those who put the workers on the minimum right away in the third month. So they got these 4,000 kn from the government now and they didn't raise the workers to 4 but they keep them on the minimum, and we don't have a legal solution for that model. There are many employers who, today in Croatia, out of this 4,000 kn, pay 3200 and those 800 kn to themselves, let's say so, but I think that they should endure at least a small part of the crisis, can't mean that even the entrepreneur is completely uncircumcised from this situation and I think it would be correct for those workers to keep them to 4000 kn and not cut their wages, but that's something, I think, I think these employers are such with both the crown and no crown, and that in the future they would see how they cheat the system, but I think it's very important because of the future measures that the state also indicates who used these measures, how much they got from the workers, how much they ended with the employers and that we know because of planning further activities. The same thing, now they're talking about these activations, they're not asking guests to relax the measures just so they can open up that they can say we've opened up, but that they have income and that they can live and I'm not sure, so I appeal again, that we're not in a hurry with relaxation, I'm not sure that if we let the work of restaurants where every 3 meters of a table will be one or a guest, first of all, I doubt that someone in such restaurants will lead to any effects. So once again, we all go together and we need to think about it, we need to talk about these problems, because then we will all be able to overcome them more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201769	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Bozo Petrov, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201770	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the aim of this debate was to present the MOST proposal with a delay compared to when we talked about them and when we handed them over to them when we discussed them, but still, we hoped that through the debate we would be able to hear about why these proposals might not be appreciated because there might be some quality argument, we didn't hear it, we didn't honestly hear this at least second part if the quality proposals were adopted, we didn't hear it. But I will remind you of one thing during this debate. Can the state do more? You got it. Is the state supposed to be equal to everyone? You should. Is everyone in this crisis supposed to bear a burden? They do. Well, then, please. neither banks have the right to profit from citizens in this accident. They should also agree to this not as they would have wanted, whom they would have wanted, but by law they should be obliged not to have the right at this moment neither interest nor to profit from people who cannot literally end with the end at this point. You have 230 000 blocked since the last crisis today, if this issue is not settled, you will have a new exodus from Croatia because people have nothing left to do if this is not arranged but picked up from Croatia because if they stay here for life there will be bank slaves. Well, if the banks don't want to agree to that, then there's a force. If you're going to talk to me about taking away some rights, and what's voted so far is taking away and restricting certain rights. So when the state said "fina" you have no right to carry out this exercise, then the FINA has limited certain rights and that doesn't mean that's exactly what we don't have to do, we need to do it because the state needs to take care of everyone. And I will use this final presentation to thank everyone, everyone who participated in this debate, with all the arguments, with their suggestions which can be done better. Everything we can do, we'll respect everything. I would also like to thank all those who bear the burden of this crisis from healthcare professionals to other services. I would especially like to thank those who pay taxes today, not to be disturbed by a trip from the State Inspectorate, to keep trying. They're the ones carrying this company. At least from this point on, they can see that we in MOST are not such that we are going to squeeze them, that our relationship and I am starting from our side is partnered but I also hope that some other political parties, especially the government, will take on exactly that kind of attitude towards citizens and entrepreneurs, a partnership. And in particular, in the end, I thank all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for their discipline because the reason why the measures have worked, I mean the epidemiological measures. They have succeeded because in most cases our people have adhered to these precisely, and if you ask me who the heroes of Croatia are today, then they are just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201771	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201772	counterpart Petrov, Croatia has hope, Croatia is rich in the resources of the water we gave in the concession in foreign, private hands. Croatia is rich in agricultural land, Croatia has sea. Croatia has potential for development, it has people, still. I hope that the day will come when hope will return to Croatia and that Croatia will be a state that will not need a crisis to take measures, that someone will raise their political ratings but that Croatia will be equal opportunities for every man, every diet, and for that my fellow fighters and their mothers, their families, sons and daughters owe it to us. And so far, what's been done, and mostly before the crown crisis, was essentially destruction. Any hope in... [[Intruder: Thank you, The Answer of Respected...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201773	...Advocacy Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201774	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. What I'm about to say applies to all other MPs, including political actors. Things aren't over, the time isn't over. Things can change, laws can be passed. Can we protect our agricultural land from foreigners? Yeah, we can, the question is, do we have a will? Can we share our unused agricultural land? We can. Can we protect the springs of drinking water? We can. Can we bring an energy policy that will benefit all citizens in Croatia and entrepreneurs. We can. Can we create stronger IT industry and other economic branches in Croatia? We can. Can we protect those who are currently at risk in our society? We can. It's just a matter of will. Time's not over. I just hope the citizens realize that changes happen unfortunately in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201775	Thank you. Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point, i.e. the points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. This will end the work for today, we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal for the EU Implementation Act 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925. Have a nice evening. Session adjourned at 5:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-22-0.u201776	Proposal for a Conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during Covid-19. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Conclusion on the introduction of bank cards for blocked citizens during the COVID-19 disease which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received a sufficient number of votes, 35 for, 2 abstentions and 75 against, and the conclusion has not been reached. Thank you. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as far as I can tell. Just a second, colleague Dobrović. We're going back to work today. Our first point is: - Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/1021 on persistent organic pollutants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 925; The Proposer is the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172, 204, 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Now, here's your colleague, Dobrović. I assume it's a request for a break. Here you go.
