ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5309	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] I especially welcome our colleagues who are either sick or self-insulating to see that they are today, it seems to me on the screen that there are 13 if I'm not mistaken, so this one here is all of us unfortunately more who are in these conditions. Let's go with the vote, first of all, here's my colleague Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5310	The Honorable President on behalf of the MOSTA Club is asking for a break of 15 minutes because we need additional consultations since we have found ourselves in an unexpected situation, that 2 of our MPs defacto has had a certain self-insulation by the parliamentary service which has not even considered a specific situation defined it to everyone who was at a certain meeting even though they wore masks, although 2 MPs were at 10 meters of the distance line. And I remind you that this is about double standards because Mr. Hrebac, despite the opinion of the epidemiologist in Bjelovar, is later allowed to be in the assembly and vote, thanks to the higher instance. And all of this is happening in an unhealthy atmosphere where two weeks of time in the assembly we disagree with, we believe that the assembly must work at this difficult time for the country, in a situation where the moratorium is running out on Monday, where the hosts are in big problems, where there is an additional problem in the functioning of schools, hospitals, one situation where it is not clear whether we are in lockdown or not because schools or work or do not work for example, and so do we in the assembly. Whether we should have been given a hall where we will sit a meter, two distances, or how long it takes, or that we can all work online, not to reduce us to 40, and then to carry out arbitrarily measures on self-insulation by the Assembly service. In all this unhealthy climate, what's happening in public, the charges of radicalisation, not radicalisation, which prejudges the results of the investigation, because we still don't know the act that happened. So I appeal to all of us to reduce our tensions a little bit, not to make any light conclusions based on an individual case, and here, as a contribution to all this constructive debate, we need an additional consultation, so please a 15-minute break. And I also regret that the Mandate-Immunity Commission did not comply with the request of the Greek representative to remove his immunity, allowing Prime Minister Plenkovic and the DORH to sue him for slander if he made false claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5311	Thank you. A break will be granted, only an explanation around his colleagues, Grumoja. At a time when a complaint will be filed against him, if he wants it, we can remove the immunity, but at the end of today, we have at the request of colleagues, former counterpart Ranko Ostojić, a request for the removal of immunity. We have in the debate made a decision not to remove immunity, it is a common practice, if a colleague of Grmoya wants to take it off and in that case we cannot go against his will. But in this case, right now, without any demands from anyone to take off immunity, I don't see any reason to do that. The apartment will, of course, be approved. A colleague of Tomašević's, you've reached out to him as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5312	Thank you. I'm asking for 15 minutes on behalf of the Green Left Block Club to consult on this new situation that after today's session of the assembly, the assembly is going on a two-week break, which we think is completely undeserved, and we can't believe that it's justified by the statements that we're working in a piece for 7 weeks and then it takes us 2 weeks off. I will remind you that the last few weeks of plenary debate, which is only on Wednesdays and Thursdays, lasts on average 4.5 hours, around 2:00 p.m., if the government is not already sending bill proposals to the parliamentary procedure, I don't understand why the opposition points that are now on the agenda are not being held for plenary debate in order to at least discuss these opposition points. Also, why there is no session on Mondays and Tuesdays of the board, they are placed at the same time as the plenary debates. So in this situation one of the biggest crises in which Croatia has ever found itself now the Croatian Parliament is leaving for a two-week break, we see no reason or justification for it. So in particular, we consider it an attempt to put an end to the opposition now that we have all submitted a request for an investigative committee of parliament, when, after JANAF when the ministers' impeachments are proposed, when legal proposals are put in place like that to extend the moratorium for executions, it is now going on a two-week break. So we see absolutely no justification from the ruling majority, and we ask that also other club colleagues ask themselves why we do it and ask why the assembly is among the worst-rated institutions in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5313	Okay, it's gonna be an approved break. Here you go, fellow Bartula. Which, no, not before you were, it says before, before, before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5314	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. On the agenda we have 25 points today, unfortunately there are no 2 points, and these are reports on the work of the courts and on the work of the DORH. The Croatian public should know that these discussions have already been delayed for 3 weeks. I also agree with my colleagues that I don't see any justification for this break. You have the right to do so, but I must warn you that, in determining the schedule of this high home, there are unfortunately great possibilities of abuse, some things are delayed. Prime Minister Plenkovic argues he wants to strengthen Croatian institutions, when he rejected the proposal to set up an investigative commission, that's exactly what he said. However, this is what I consider a demeaning of this high house. We have great responsibility for Croatian citizens in a thorough, fair way to do these topics, this does not allow us to do just that. So instead of having a new investigative committee that I think is necessary we have a two-week break. /. So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club to further consult and I don't think it's good in practice that important punch points are being postponed this way. Too bad we didn't have the opportunity to discuss the work of the judiciary, that's what concerns Croatian citizens and what they're interested in and about the DORH we didn't have that possibility, I don't think that's good. We have a parliamentary democracy, we have to stick to our institutions and respect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5315	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5316	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break on behalf of the Party with its name, Smart and GLAS, also because of the necessary consultations on how to vote on certain points put on the agenda today. However, I want to join all colleagues who have indicated that the break at this time represents a kind of obstruction of democratic processes. Not only because the opposition unanimously and unitarily requested the establishment of an investigative commission to detect and detect weaknesses in the anti-corruption system, but also because of the fact that we did not discuss important reports which could be almost identical or similar to the purpose, as well as this investigation committee, and since 2018. In addition to the report by the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General and the Attorney General here, we also have unsettled reports for 2018, as well as for 2019 and by the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest and by the Advocate General. It is a bad message for our citizens that after only 7 weeks of work, the assembly is disbanded, and we have not discussed why the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body did not respect any of the recommendations of almost appeal to competent institutions that show how much the legal system and rule of law is defeated and hollow.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5317	The apartment will be approved to you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5318	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I request a recess before the vote itself. What I'm trying to say is I've been 17. MP, this is my sixth term, and I think I have a significant experience that I can evaluate the work of the assembly. In those last 16 years. which are behind me, not once did the Croatian Parliament in the spring part of the session break, usually during the big week or Easter holidays, and in the autumn session, which is now the case, it was always somewhere around all the Holy and the Day of the Dead. If one analysis of the work of Croatians is made, all are convened by the Croatian Parliament, so we will see that always the break happens at this very time. Therefore, in addition to the populist impulses of opposition MPs who glorify their work here in the Croatian Parliament, which is often a road, which has been evaluated in the past elections by those who are the Supreme Arbitrarian of Democracy, I see no more reason for such allegations. Another thing I want to say. Through an analysis of the work of all European parliaments, only one parliament in Europe works at an annual level more than the Croatian Parliament. This past, 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament broke the record in the work of the Croatian Parliament in the past year when we worked far more than any previous assembly in any year. Therefore, honoring the HDZ or the leadership of the assembly that it wants to die in this way, silenced the opposition has been completely missed. No one prevents the opposition from performing politically and acting as he thinks appropriate. On the other hand, in this year's parliamentary elections, this Croatian Parliament's meeting in this year, run by the ruling majority, will again have a record number of days. And I would remind you that at the time when the crown crisis began bring all important documents [[Intruder: Thank you]] to ensure the functioning of the state. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5319	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Comrade Ahmetovic, please. The apartment will be approved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I request a recess to further consult on the current situation. Namely, first of all, I'd like to answer Mr. Bacic's question. It's true, in all 16 years. It wasn't this situation that we were looking for a break. However, in those 16 years. This is not the kind of fat that happened in 2020. I'm just going to list something of all the events that have happened to us. First of all, the crown, I don't remember it being a crown before all these 16 years ago, this year it is. Not to mention the assassination attempt on Mark's square, the executions that follow in 3 days, the closure of businesses, the protest of the caterers, the carriers, that these hosts I mentioned face 70% of the revenues from last year, the carriers, the occasional carriers who face the loss of 20,000 jobs, the strengthening of radicalism in the Republic, the savagery of the crown, the record number of the infected, so everything that we all face with two feet on the ground face every day. So you don't need to speak more in detail, but what I have to ask about is how you're not ashamed of yourself, how you're not ashamed of the Croatian citizens who have chosen us all to go on vacation for two weeks, the pre-Blessed vacation that will be paid while they're worried about whether to activate the exercise because we haven't been able to pass a law that would help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5321	We have, a break will be granted. Injury of my colleague Bačić's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5322	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Ahmetovic has been injured by an article. 238, disdaining other MPs. She wonders how we're not ashamed, I wonder how you're not ashamed of her. Ahmetovic? How much I have information, and that's true, you're Chief Omishi. Now, what are you doing here as Chief Omishi? And will you when the council doesn't work to do all the work that the citizens of Omis have chosen you for?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5323	It wasn't a colleague of Bačić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. It's not, I agree, it's not appropriate to talk and call your colleagues a shame or not, I don't think there's any reason for that. I won't give a warning because there are certain reasons for what my colleague Bacic was reacting to. So, no, it's not about malicious use because it had certain reasons, but I estimate there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Ahmetovic. Peja?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5324	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bačić, he has injured an art. 236 despite what you said. A colleague of Bacic used the violation of the Rules of Procedure for Replication, first of all, to demeaning the work of counterpart Ahmetovic in local self-government units. Comrade Bačić, as long as this law is allowed, nothing in what counterpart Ahmetovic is doing should be a problem, especially when we hear that you are proposing that soon and enable the mayors to sit in the Parliament [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What you're doing is the easiest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] said incorrectly. [[Agreement: A fellow coat of arms, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5325	Thank you very much. So there was a replica here too. I won't give you a warning either, but the hard words of my colleague Ahmetovic then pulled the hard words of my colleague Bačić. I think it's perfectly logical, no one has any reason to be ashamed because everything that's going on is in accordance with the law, but also in accordance with the good customs that we have. And being chief and representative is also allowed, but it's also normal after 7 weeks of work the next 30 years of HS work to go on a break, so I don't see any reason for this kind of difficult word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Tomašević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5326	According to Art. 238 means that during the debate, it must not begin to talk about another topic which was not addressed by the representative, if he has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is where MP Bačić violated that you have not given him any firm measure because he mentioned that the colleague is the head of Omislje, and did not mention how many mayors and mayors of HDZ there are, and we do not have parliamentary committees on Mondays and Tuesdays so that we do not have to come to Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5327	Comrade Tomašević, you are now doing what your predecessors have done, and I will not give you any warning now. Let's move on with the debate now. A fellow Pupovac called too, looking for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5328	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As for breaks or breaks, pauses and breaks are an opportunity for MPs to do their other parliamentary work. To tour their electoral units, their voters, to deal with affairs that are related to their political work and what they are chosen for. If someone's using it, I apologize for replicating it like this, and I don't intend to hurt anyone. If someone uses it for a vacation, then someone can be ashamed of it. If someone uses it as an excuse to pollemize here under special circumstances when we have so many colleagues who are self-insulation and infected, then it can also be a shame. The other thing I want to say on behalf of the club is exactly as some colleagues and colleagues point out that we have serious and difficult problems. But it's not the first time. The country has indeed been in critical circumstances in the last 5, 6 years. But unlike the last five, six years, we haven't had this epidemic condition that we have. And we colleagues and colleagues need to think about how we're going to work. The Assembly bodies can continue their work. And they should continue it despite the breaks, especially those that have urgent and mandatory jobs that some MPs here have spoken of and prepared for the prey. If we look at things like that, as an opportunity to work with voters and as an opportunity for committees to do their part of the job, especially some, then there's no for this type of reaction under the circumstances that are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] crisises. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Pupovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5329	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't, we'll continue in three minutes because of the article. 293 and may be granted a break of up to 5 minutes. So if anyone else wants to consult inside the club, please do it quickly, we'll continue at 12 o'clock and 26 minutes, please be here. So please be here, not those who don't need to leave their seats. It's 12.23 o'clock. We have a free speech today. If you agree, I can see that there is a colleague Simičević here, colleague Vidović Kristo, colleague Milanović litre, colleague Brumnic, you asked, so we can, if you want to do it now and then we don't have any more after the vote. Okay. Then here I am calling my colleague Simičević, a colleague of Simičević, here you are. ... Come on, go and then we'll go with colleague Vidovic Kristo. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5392	Can we just stick to the line 'cause I was running 'cause I knew we were gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5393	Come on, then we'll continue in 10 minutes. How about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5394	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5395	Here, and please inform your clubs if anyone wants to speak in, here, at 11 o'clock, 15 minutes, 17 minutes. It's 10.43 hours. We are going to another debate, it is the House Movement Representatives Club and the respected representative Karolina Vidović Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5397	Ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday, October 18, 2020, with the blessing of the Croatian government, the moratorium stands out and is re-activated by the Libyan Executive Act, author and implementer of HDZ and SDP. Since the introduction of moratorium, there have been 170,000 new procedures for the execution of Croatian citizens, most of which relate to directors. It is worth 300 kuna in Germany for a debt of 11,000 kuna, according to this most unfair law in Europe, the cost of a debt of 150 kuna in Croatia is 560 kuna. Instead of the ruling summit solving corruption affairs such as Agrokor, JANAF, favouring various tycoon pets and ensuring the return of money, and these are billions of kunas alienated from Croatian taxpayers, this government continues to hit the knees with unprecedented measures and throw those same taxpayers. Until when? Second thing, the Franak case, two news. I've just learned that the Mayor's Court in Varazdin ruled against the appeal of Addiko Bank.... /. ... and confirmed the judgment of the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, which found that two credit agreements in the currency of CHF were worthless. So this is the first power of judgment that the whole CHF contract is worthless because the interest and illegal application of CHF currency clauses are zero. The second news is that the recent EU court has reached another very important verdict in the combined cases C-224/19 and C-259/19 and has practically made several important decisions for consumers in one judgment, and here I single out only the most important part. The contractual provision requiring the consumer to pay the credit-indemnity fee is unfair and harmful if the banks do not prove that the bank does not prove that the compensation corresponds to the services actually provided and the costs incurred, which our banks cannot prove. So far, in the collective case of Franak, we have the power to establish the illegality of interest rates that have been unilaterally raised by banks and the illegality of the use of the currency clause in'switzerland' has been established. Now we also have confirmation that the entry and exit fees are illegal and a final verdict that the whole contract is worthless. The question arises, what was legal in the credit agreements that were approved from 2000 to 2010 as well as the question of the responsibility of the regulator, the CNB directly responsible for supervision in the area of the protection of consumers of financial services? Perhaps we can understand that they did not respond in time and prevent the illegal operation of banks, but now, after all these court confirmations in our courts and in the EU court, it is in no way clear why the CNB does not react and order banks to stop such illegal practices and most importantly, the return of overpaid funds to consumers. It is also unclear why such banks are not being punished for unfair business practices. The question is, does the CNB actually do its part of the job in consumer protection? Finally, a question should also be asked to the Croatian government. Is there anything more that can be done for damaged credit users? We, here in the Parliament, as well as the Croatian Government, are obliged to legally enable the refund of overpaid money. A solution is imposed in terms of stricter penalties for banks, and as part of the Consumer Credit Act and the Consumer Protection Act, when unfair business practices are legally established. The penalties should be such that banks are deterred from such behaviour, and as things stand in the field now, the banks first damaged the users of the credit, then exhausted the legal path to unconsciousness and only a small part of the most persistent users are judicially returning only part of the money robbed. By now, banks have practically returned 1 kuna to the consumer on average for 100 kunas that they have acquired without a base. It's a total of about 20 billion kunas that banks should repay to loan users. The overall consequences are not only damaged but also the overall economy, reduced consumption of citizens, and consequently lower GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5433	We are going to the 3rd debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and esteemed counterpart Marko Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5434	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Responsibility. For a long time I have been thinking about this concept and its meaning, the importance and lack of it in today's society, in private, business lives, but also politics. The last few days because of a tragic event taking place not far from us, the concept of responsibility has entered almost all Croatian homes and found its place on all the headlines of newspapers and portals. I wonder how responsibility affects our society? Responsibility is an invisible thread that society connects and holds together. We are all responsible in one way or another to someone, whether family, friends, employers, employees, or Croatian people. There are two groups of people in today's society. The first group are people who see problems, but the responsibility of these problems, i.e. The responsibility of the problem is transferred to others. Another group of people are people who see problems and who are willing to take responsibility even though they did not create them. I believe, or I hope that each of us here wants to be part of this second group, but when we look at the state of affairs, it would be concluded that most of us belong to the first group. All Croatian governments can serve us today as an example of irresponsible government and its property. Because of their missed, unspoken and non-transparent policies, I welcomed many acquaintances, friends and family members who were disappointed with opportunities in Croatia, looking for a better life elsewhere. The vast majority of them are young, educated people ahead of whom there are a number of successes in private and business life, but unfortunately they will never achieve in Croatia. Their departure from Croatia is certainly not easy. But these young men are fighters. They fight for a better life and take responsibility for themselves and their family. Who is responsible for not being able to succeed in Croatia and in Ireland, Germany or Austria? Certainly not them alone. Who is responsible for what in Croatia, excuse me, are responsible, those who have systematically ignored young people so far, who want better quality of life, more transparency, a regulated state and the conditions in which they will be able to live, work and create. They need a pro-active authority that will be entrepreneurial, not civil. Which will be determined to implement policies that are in the interests of the people, not particular interests of individuals and parties. They want a government that is responsible for its people and which is in the interest of investing in the future of their country. However, it is obvious from the work of all governments so far that young people are not their priority, and hence, it is not their priority, nor Croatia's future. Instead of transparency and accountability, all governments so far, including this one, offer young people a long series of affairs, malfeasance and corruption for which almost no one was responsible. It is up to all of us to leave to future generations a society that will celebrate and encourage competitiveness, which will be built on the merits, and not on the basis of belongings, a society in which everyone is responsible for their actions and the consequences of these proceedings. We must leave them a state in which there is transparency and accountability at all levels of state service, from tents in the ministries to, all the way to the Ban Courts. Only then will we be able to tell young people that there is a future for them in Croatia. . /.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5535	Now it is up to a respected colleague, Dalia Oreskovic, on behalf of the Party's Representatives Club with a name and name, Smart and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5536	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs, one of the problems we have obviously forgotten little, and I thank my fellow predecessor who warned him about it, it is emigration. Those who were disappointed to leave Croatia for the reasons of their departure cited a poorly-run and disorganised state, an inequality before the law, corruption, employment of similar party people, a sense of hopelessness and imperceptibility. In the country, they see the problem of lack of long-term thinking, and this is explained by the fact that strategic documents are not brought or do not have continuity, and even when they are adopted, such as the preparation of the National Development Strategy, it seems that its objective is primarily to distribute € 4.3 million, I will repeat € 4.3 million by Martini Dalic and other Plenkovic Borgs, not ensuring sustainable development and a better standard of living for our citizens. I don't need five minutes to say what's important to me right now. I want to apologize to all those who have made this mandate possible to me and to say that I feel deeply ashamed of this two-week break that the ruling is sending us to. We didn't ask for this break, we didn't have to, we didn't even have a chance to even discuss it and vote on it. But this two-week break is not a vacation, not even the HDZ are tired of working, this break is primarily a break from responsibility. On the agenda of the sittings and topics that have not been discussed are a number of reports waiting for two years, Report of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2018, 2019. Report by the Advocate General for 2018, 2019, Report by the Attorney General, Report by the President of the Supreme Court, all of these are topics which could in any way shake the chairs on which he is currently sitting. However, the real even deeper cowardice of the authorities does not stem from a delay in discussing these topics, and so does the other very sensitive ones, such as the investigation committee, driven by the Janaf affair and the search for a solution to the expiry of citizens' moratories on the ground, no, the real cowardice of the authorities stems from a delay in the implementation of structural reforms, not only in this mandate but also in the previous ones. And these are the reforms of the territorial structure, electoral legislation, public administration, the establishment of effective government control, strengthening preventive mechanisms in the anti-corruption system, judicial reform, education reform, these are the real topics that await their agenda. However, there is no topic, there is no occasion or event that will not show that our society is deeply split and divided and these divisions are not to the right or to the left. The division is primarily on those to whom such a system belongs, which also corresponds to those who seek a certain change regardless of whether they know what kind of change we need and whether or not the methods for the change in society advocates are legitimate and socially justified and acceptable. And every time an event occurs that shows that society is on the verge of shooting the leading political elites into public space and introduces old enemies and historical divisions into public dialogue. In these days, two major political Titans are ahead of the public space. And apart from their shared rhetoric, which is primarily evident in the demeaning and insulting of others, it is common to them that in their term of office when they had the opportunity to do nothing. . /. I want to tell my voters, but also to all other citizens, that by being a representative in the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament, I am not also part of this government and I do not want to be part of this government, as one representative. I cannot dictate the topics of the agenda, but I can call on the ruling and president of HS to give up this break, so dear ruling, dear HDZ, give up your break and get to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5537	Here's my colleague Bacic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5538	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. HS's Rules of Procedure because counterpart Oreskovic persistently demeans other members of parliament, primarily representatives of the ruling majority. And I'd like to speak to Mrs. McNally. Oreshkovic suggested that instead of apologizing to his voters, instead of explaining to his voters that it was just between 5,000 lawyers in Croatia selected without a public call, without a public tender to represent, represent and carry out affairs for JANAF, which is why she later did various performances... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5539	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And what do you need, colleague Tomasevic? ... So let me say, let me say it, I said it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'll give my colleague Bačić a warning, as I gave you three warnings because there are rules here to be followed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And while I'm chairman, I'm going to follow those rules and use all those obligations and rights that I have as chairman. And one of them is to call a session and determine when there's going to be a break. I've been here 17 or 18 years, and I've had some experience, and the voters have again given me support and voted HDZ and us to lead the state as we think it's right, and they haven't given you that support. When you're in power, when you get most of the votes, then you set the rules. We'll vote at 12 o'clock. It's 11:00.32. Let's go to the fifth debate, Green-left bloc advocates' club, respected counterpart Tomislav Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5700	Dear colleagues, parliamentary representatives, I want to speak freely today about the systematic failure of the Croatian Parliament, which we are all part of, and this systematic reluctantness culminates with the undeserved two-week break that will take place after today's debate. It is no accident that the Croatian Parliament is the worst-rated institution of government by Croatian citizens, the worst-rated institution. And the main institution of government. Croatia is now going through one of the biggest crises in its history and the Parliament is leaving for a break of two. With an explanation of the ruling majority that we've been working for seven years. in a piece and that kind of thing is common. How do you even comment on such a statement? We from the Green-Left Block Club, I'll remind you, we've been asking before the summer break not to go on a summer break of as many as four hours. to adopt the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb and the Environment as soon as possible, and to resolve this as soon as possible, however, it is then ignored and is now going to an additional two weeks of "deserved" break. To the merits of this, the facts you would like to discuss will be spoken of, and I think very reluctantly fellow parliamentary representatives speak of these facts, so we're sure there's little public hearing about what this is all about. And that's one of our experiences as new parliamentary representatives in just three months. And I have to admit, I expected a lot from the Parliament, but I couldn't imagine this. So let's do this. The assembly is full of plenary means day only on Wednesdays and Thursdays. And on Fridays there are fewer agenda points because it is usually a vote by noon and afterwards a session is interrupted with possible free speeches. Today's free speech was done before the vote. So two and a half jobs. At the same time, Monday and Tuesday are not plenary debates because parliamentary committees should then be. I say should be because, as you know very well, the parliamentary committees are mainly now scheduled during the plenary session, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, so that poor parliamentary representatives should not come to the Parliament or Zagreb on Monday and Tuesday. And then when these committee sessions happen, I will remind you, there are very short sessions of these committees, so otherwise parliamentary committees in all parliaments are the most debated committees, with us.... /. ... very short board meetings, and then when Parliament's representatives happen they can't even be until the end of the session of the Assembly board but deposit their vote so they don't have to stay until the end and vote at this brief session of a committee that usually lasts an hour, half an hour, sometimes shorter. When it is also seen what plenary debates can also be clearly seen that it is now mainly about some old points because the government does not work enough, does not work fast enough and does not refer to new very important and necessary laws in the parliamentary procedure, for example, mentioning the executive law which 6 weeks of the moratorium did not go into debate. We have asked for a change in the meaning of these two laws concerning intervention measures and implementation of enforcement on money and to be in charge of the government, to extend the moratorium until the Implementing Law is amended, which took six months, but this will obviously be rejected. I'll give you a few more examples here, for example yesterday we discussed a report by the CNB for the second half of 2019 that came into the parliamentary procedure in March of this year, which is the meaning, so half of the year was to come to debate the plenary and what is the point of even discussing such a report for the second half of 2019 so late 9, 10 months after that so much and the circumstances changed. We also discussed the Law in construction products that are in line with the EU acquis the other day, and we do not have any room for manoeuvre, we will vote today on this law, it is a law that is technical law, it is in line with the acquis, and the public consultation for this law was in December of last year, and it was so controversial, under quotes, that no objection has come in the public debate, and it takes 10 months to pass the procedure, to pass the procedure and to discuss and vote. However, if the government is already so slow and does not propose new bill proposals, then we wonder why no opposition initiatives are put on the plenary debate. So proposals for amending laws and other initiatives are on the agenda by the opposition [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] But it's not done. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Tomašević.]] So we see clearly what...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5701	Thank you very much. You get the first one, you get the first warning, You get a second warning now, if you keep going, you'll get a third warning now. Please leave the pay phone and act in accordance with the rules of procedure because it is not a road, this is an institution of the Croatian State that has its own rules and its Rules of Procedure. On the road, act like you've been around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5754	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, viewers and viewers, the expressions I will use here in male or female gender equally refer to male and female. Here, we've entered a new school year with a coronary virus and only thanks to all the stakeholders we've managed to teach where it belongs, and it's in schools. This is the moment, and I hope that this monster will pass, and that everything will soon be the same as the old one where the laughter and joy of the school halls will be heard again, and that the excursions and prom parties will be part of the growing up of our young. There are challenges in the system that are problematic, burdening teachers, teachers and principals. Here I want to say a few sentences about the educational inspection that is necessary for monitoring, determining, removing irregularities for better and better quality functioning of the educational system. So, all colleagues agree with the role of educational inspection, but are not with the Institute of Anonymous Application. An anonymous application that was introduced by example, I guess, of some totalitarian and thank God last year, passed time with the goal of everyone being able to make a complaint and sometimes to the best. We know from practice that anonymous reports in most cases have been rejected as unfounded, but after an anonymous report, there is a disturbance in the chamber. Although they are called anonymous always after the departure of an educational inspector, everything is known. In order to avoid unwanted situations at school, we advocate that such a form of view of the valley and that it comes out only in the case of signed applications. First of all, they're the principals on anonymous reports because they're responsible for everything bad that's going on at school. What employees who care about the positive relationships at school feel is that the inspection should come to an insight into the school’s annual school principal level and have insight into the school being sued. We know that 90% of anonymous applications refer to a personal level. So it's the principal's fault she took the class, it's the principal's fault that someone got that class and that class, the principal's fault that someone's got six hours, the principal's guilty of getting someone last hours on Fridays. Another type of anonymous application is when a colleague reports a colleague. There is a wide range of reasons and it is difficult to find a justifiable pedagogical fortification. It's a large number of people who are having disturbed relationships. The protection of the director of the institution is not sought here but an anonymous burden of inspection as well as relations within the collectives. Anonymous applications cannot be restricted by today's law, so we have cases where the inspection comes to a school in a few months and a half 15 times. Can you imagine the tensions at school and how much work can't be done when there's a school inspection? So, on behalf of teachers, teachers, pedagogical services and directors, I propose that an anonymous application be lifted and that the inspection be made available only in the case of written applications. To be responsible for the implementation of the curriculum and programmes at all levels whose work is supervised by the school board and inspection. Teachers and teachers require that any application within the collective be referred to the school principal. It is clear and taxaneous to state the failures of the principal, which are the reasons for the resolution. Five, to seek responsibility for those who unfounded and without arguments report any teachers, whether the principal, or employees. I propose amendments to Article 13, Article 19, Article 28, Article 30 and Article 42. This is a request from most 50,000 teachers in primary and secondary schools and a clear sign that some members of the law should be changed because examples of good practice have not confirmed them as valid. So, I ask the Ministry of Science and Education to accept the proposal and the launch of the amendments to the law will be a clear message to employees in the system that their legitimate reasons have been observed and will restore faith in the system we belong to, all with a purpose of better and better quality. Raising and educating young people who will soon take over our roles. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5813	Let's move on with the debates, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, Honorary Representative Mako Kuzmanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u5814	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. What I want to talk about today, what I want to draw attention to today is what we all see but obviously some of us don't see, and that's the daily force of local sheriffs, executive authorities and the position of a small man in such a system. We all know that our agriculture is not exactly the level that it should be, given that we have entered the EU and that very little culture that succeeds in Croatia but one culture that we are all proud of and that I am very proud of is the winemaking, the winemaking that has been instilled in the tradition of our country and our farmers for years are one of the best winemakers in the world, and my Kaštelani and my Hvarans and my Dalmatians and all of our Croatians who receive awards in the world are one of the best ambassadors of our country. As our winemaking today looks like, we saw it on TV a few days ago. When Mr. Rozić and the property came in and for your information, the area of Mili where his vineyards are located is the oldest vineyard on the island of Pelješac, meaning older than the dingač. And that's where the 7,000 drywalls collapse, the man destroys 40% of the plant, destroys 25% of the olive plant in order to please who? A brother from the chief who built concrete on state agricultural land. That immeasurable damage that is happening, apparently went undetected in that tragic incident that took place at the beginning of this week at Mark's square and a young colleague who spoke here before me, he said, he mentioned the question of responsibility, yes, and we are responsible for it because some of these positions here talk about hate, encourage hate, and certainly as they say, what you sow, so you will also reap, it certainly cannot fall on fertile soil. What I want to point out here, unless the Croatian institutions revise this decision and help one of our winemakers whose family lives from this production and that tomorrow we have something to be proud of and do not revise these decisions and try to find a better solution, we will only have another sad story from Croatia. The only culture that will succeed after that will be the culture of corruption and nepotism, and the one you had the opportunity to read two days ago. in the newspaper when you saw that 108 cancellations were distributed in HGK, but of course not to all, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, his nephew is not, the treasurer of the Split HDZ, his son is not. It means selective dispensation. Nepotism, corruption, hate speech, destruction of Croatian agriculture, this is Croatia for you today. All of you who close your eyes to it, wake up, help one little man, he may be one small wheel of the system, but maybe that point is a turning point that everyone should insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6652	Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Rajko Ostojić's term of office and the termination of the post of Vice-President of HS. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following decision: On 14 October 2020 begin the rest of MP Rajko Ostojić's term of office. It is determined that Rajko Ostojić, acting vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, was suspended on 14 October 2020. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I note that 103 MPs and MPs voted and that a decision was unanimously taken as proposed by the MIP. MIP's report on the request for authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoja, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the next decision. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6653	Dear President, since you mentioned me while I was on the line, I could not react, I ask all MPs to reject the MIP's conclusion and to remove my immunity and in this case Ranko Ostojić, but in general, means that Prime Minister Plenkovic and the DORH could prosecute me for the heavy accusations of swindling in our embassies that I personally brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6654	So, about this case, if you're asking yourself to remove your immunity, then I think we need to do it. And in the case of this second lawsuit, if it happens, if you express your desire to remove your immunity, we'll also do it, but based on this, we have no basis for what you don't have because you don't have a lawsuit, no one has sued you for now. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6655	Mr. President, I have no business opportunity to engage in the debate, but please allow me to state the position of the SDP Club on this precedent that you have called, and Mr. Grmoya has accepted, will be in two sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6656	No, no, no, wait a minute, I didn't invite you, so this is Mr. Grumoje's wish, I was just on request and the inquiry of my colleagues said what we could do. So, I don't know, I've never met a situation like this before, maybe it happened, but I didn't register them, we mostly refused to take off our immunity. Now the representative himself is asking for immunity to be removed. It's one situation where two principles are met, but here you are, I'm going to give you a chance to say your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6657	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll back the MIP report no matter what our member sues him. The first time this rule is broken, then every MP who has a private suit, who wants it, doesn't want his immunity removed, will be exposed to public pressure to ask for it and then to go to court and then immunity will be no more. Therefore, we will support the report, the MIP report, regardless of Mr. Grumoya's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6658	Comrade Grmoy, you're aware of the precedent you're making and you want us to remove your immunity?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6659	Yeah, I'm aware... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6660	Okay, nothing, I mean that's it, that's it, that's the right of colleagues of the bush. Comrade Whitey, here you go. I mean, I'm a little uncomfortable with this whole situation, it's new and you wouldn't want to make a mistake. Here's your colleague, Whitey. Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6661	Your Honor, I'd like to beg, so neither do I. I would ask you to allow Mr. Grumoja at least two minutes to explain why it is, because there's obviously a reason why he wants to bring out certain things, and if he doesn't get his immunity off, he won't be able to do it. Thus, it is precedent in the sense that a person wants to be prevented by the Croatian Parliament by not removing immunity from telling the truth. So, I'd like him to explain exactly what this is about and then I'll vote whatever he wants and I suggest we all vote that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6662	Wait a minute, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6663	Let it be...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6664	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6665	Make it a precedent. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6666	Okay, we're not going to go into further discussion right now. We know what case this is, so it's about the lawsuit of private prosecutor Ranko Ostojic, our former counterpart against his colleague, Grumoja. In these situations, the MIP decides to reject such a request and it has made such a decision this time. Now we have an agent asking that such a decision be rejected. He's got his reasons. We're not gonna open a debate about this right now. So we're making one precedent, but I think the will of a representative here is above what, the practice we've had so far. Here's my colleague, Vucilović, and my colleague Bačić, here you are. But please very briefly, I'm allowing this debate right now, there's no basis for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6667	Thank you, Mr. President. This really is an unprecedented situation, but I think my colleague Grumoja still has a certain mechanism. He means as elected parliamentary representative by entering parliament to get immunity and he can put his parliamentary mandate on hold for someone else to enter the assembly instead and he no longer has immunity. So, what's all this for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6668	No, no, no, no, not my colleague Vucilović, it's not even, no, my colleague Grumoja, but there's no need, you don't need to put your mandate on hold, it has nothing to do with what your colleague said. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6669	Thank you, Mr. President. I respect Mr. Grumoje's wish to remove his immunity, and since this is a precedent in the Croatian Parliament, I propose that we postpone this vote for the next time and then for these and similar situations in which the Croatian Parliament will be held at the club level a joint decision on how to act. We stay open to the next vote if we can decide that. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u6670	Okay, well, then we'll, I'd agree with my colleague Bačić because this is a new practice, to carry out consultations, I don't want to share now, so that some of them will be in favor, and I think we need to even the practice here, and if from now on, the representative is going to ask for the removal of immunity to define it to be a new practice, and that we all support it, and not that tomorrow we have a situation to call each other out for why we did it. So here's the deal with this proposal, we'll leave it for next time. But before we vote on this point, I would ask that inter-party consultations be conducted and that we determine what practice will be in these situations. Now let's go to the choice, appointments and resolutions. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoint and Administrative Affairs, my colleague Murganic, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u7468	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... /. At his session, he adopted a proposal for the appointment of the president and termination of the term of office of the Chairman of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic. Dr. Vesna Bedekovic is proposed to the chairman of the committee and the term of office of the current president of Dr. Irene Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters. For members and president, it is proposed for President Darko Sobota, for members of Anamarija Blažević, Goran Ivanovic, Ivan Budalić, Nikša Vukas, Željko Sačić, Vilim Matula. For a member from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property of the Dipl.ing. Damir Borovic. The term of office of mr. Pavi Shashina also from this ministry. Members of the State Commission on the proposal of the ministries Mr. Krešimir Dragic, Natasa Vesligaj, Sanja Krnić Bastac, Miro Macan, mr. Jasna Divić and Krešimir Francic. Also a representative of the insurance company that ceases their mandate since they have been elected and their mandate ends on 14 June 2023. Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the council of a public institution to mention the Jasenovac area, is appointed member of the Krešimir Ačkar Council, representative of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency is proposed for the member by the President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament and the term of office of Antun Kliman on 22 July 2020. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Supervisory Board of Members shall propose to Zarko Tušek, Predrag Stomar and others. Sinisa Hajdas Dončić, and for the deputy members Grozdana Perić, Branka Juričev Martinčev and Sanja Radolović. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Council for Stocks, for members of the council from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Ante Sanader, Anja Simprag and others are elected. Milan Vrkljan. Proposal for a Decision appointing the National Council for Water, for the President of the National Council for Water from the House of Representatives is named Tomislav Klaric, and for members of the National Council of Representatives is named Ante Bačić, Stipan Sašlin, Ivan Radić and Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u7469	I thank my colleague Murganic, opening the debate, closing the debate, and voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 103 MPs and MPs voted, 102 for, 1 abstention and all decisions were made as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. We continue with the point of choice, appointment and resolution, so I would like the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice of my colleague Krunoslav Katičić to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u7470	The Honorable President of the Assembly, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, here on behalf of the Committee on Justice, I submit a report on and propose two appointment decisions, one of the two members of the State Attorney's Council of the Republic of Croatia, that will be the first point. It was held, the Justice Committee held its meeting on 16 October and received 2 proposals at the call in question. The decision has been reached unanimously, and I therefore propose that the appointment decision be appointed to appoint Dr.sc for members of the State Attorney's Council of Representatives. Zlatko Hasanbegovic and Mrs Ermina Lekay Prlaskaj. The second point is also the appointment of 2 members of the now State Judicial Council from the ranks of Croatian Parliament MPs. At the same session, only 2 proposals were also held. The decision was reached unanimously and will therefore be proposed to appoint Mr Arsen Bauk and Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic from the ranks of representatives of the State Judiciary Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u7471	I would like to thank my colleague Katičić, and I would like to open the debate, to conclude the debate and to vote on the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 101 MPs and MPs voted, 100 for, 1 abstention and decisions were made as proposed by the Justice Committee. We're going to the final decision now. Based on the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the SDP Club's proposal after the debate has been concluded. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 102 MPs and MPs voted, 102 votes were in favour, so a decision was made as proposed by the SDP's Club of Representatives. I congratulate the new vice president on choosing this honorable position and wish her a lot of success and quality cooperation with other members of the Croatian Parliament Presidency. This brings us to the end of this session, as announced next November's session will begin. [[Applause.]] Thank you all. Goodbye. The session was completed at 13.58. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2019, the applicant is the main state auditor, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2019 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? . /. I find that 116 MPs, 111 for and 5 abstentions voted and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u8726	Mr. President, we see that at this point, only three MPs who are not present in the assembly have the possibility of participating in the vote. I suggest we postpone the vote until 12.50 to establish a technical possibility for colleagues and colleagues to participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u8727	Here, four. ... Tell me, uh, okay, well, that's why I asked you because I'm also in a dilemma, but as far as I'm concerned, we can wait, I don't have any problem with that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Tomasevic, here you go. Turn yourself in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u8728	I agree, too, Well, I don't know what we've been using so far. [[Intruder: Name which institution you are using now, what are you looking for?]] So... Then in that case I don't use anything, I just want to. [[Intruder: Nothing, no, this isn't in, business it's not possible.]] Well, then, can I say... [[Intruder: A colleague yelled from the balcony, so I don't know, it's also not defined by the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u8729	You can't, no, if you have one, not everyone can remember and say what they want. Please sit down. [[How about a colleague of the coat of arms?]] No, no business options. Now that you have an idea, there's probably another 130 MPs to say something, but that's not meant for the Rules of Procedure. And how do you let go of one representative and not the other? No, I didn't let her go. The representative rose and yelled from the balcony Go to the balcony and yell, I don't know what to tell you. [[What about a colleague of the coat of arms?]] Please sit down. Please sit down, there's no, there's no, what do you want now? [[I just want to say that we can't...]] We'll wait here, 10 minutes, we'll continue at 12 o'clock and 50 minutes with the vote, please the services to include all the MPs. It's 12.43 hours. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] They've got five, six MPs who get caught, and the rest of them don't. They usually see us and they see each other, but it seems to be a broken connection to ourselves, our online connection in the assembly. So I have a proposal to keep voting without them, so we have a quorum if we want to or we're going to have to interrupt the vote and just keep going, there's nothing of the point that's so capital that we're going to have to vote today, so we can proceed another time. Here, a question for clubs? Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u8731	Thank you, Mr. President, for the situation in which a single parliamentary representative himself has decided not to take part in the vote, and the situation in which a single parliamentary representative is disabled due to technical conditions to participate in the vote is quite different. So we're not talking about quorum here, because quorum is not controversial, we're talking about the fact that individual colleagues and colleagues are not allowed to vote. So I suggest we meet again at 14 o'clock and if we can finish this vote. I hope those hours could be enough to establish relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u8732	Thanks for the suggestion. Any other suggestions? Okay, we're not going to do it at 2:00, we're going to do it at 13:30. In case we can't connect this one at 13:30 then we can do the next one, maybe some of the MPs will simply give up the right to vote, can do that, agree with them now to say they don't vote so we can vote. If that's what you want, I don't know if all the MPs will agree to it because we also have representatives who are not only part of the ruling coalition but are 4 and opposition representatives. So, if they want to, if that's how they open up the voting opportunity, yes, if not then we'll switch votes to 13 and 30 for the second time. Thank you. It's 13,03 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER A MEETING AT 1:30 A.M.]] So the representatives who were connected with the video voluntarily decided not to vote, 10 MPs from the ruling majority, 2 MPs from the opposition and 2 MPs from the Bridge were not given self-insulation so that they were there to vote. If we've taken our seats, I beg you. ... Okay, we'll see in the final vote whether we have a quorum or not, so if we don't have a quorum, we'll interrupt the vote, very easily. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2019. The applicant is the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2019 is accepted." Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 90 MPs and MPs, 89 for, 1 abstention, have voted, so we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9574	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs are before us a report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance in 2019. The Institute of Free Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Law “National Journal” No. 143 of 2013 and amendments and additions from “National Journal” 98 of 2019. The Ministry of Justice and Administration monitors the implementation of this law and it is mandatory to report annually to the Croatian Assembly on the spending of funds for free legal assistance. The report is divided into 7 wholes, the first three parts of this report give an overview of the legislative and institutional framework of free legal assistance, and the central part of the report consists of 4 and 5 parts of which give a statistical overview of the right to primary and secondary legal assistance and of the financing of primary and secondary assistance in 2019. The final part of the report shall be the 6 and 7 part of which shall describe the activities of the Ministry of Justice and Administration in 2019 and the process of further strengthening the system of free legal assistance and the assessment of the situation in view of the results achieved during this observed period from the previous year. Primary legal assistance, which primarily includes legal counselling of users of free legal aid, is provided by authorised associations, legal clinics of law schools and public administration offices in the county or office in the City of Zagreb. Secondary rights of assistance relate to the provision of legal assistance in civil and administrative court proceedings and to the exemption from the costs of court proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, the primary legal aid was granted in 20.679 cases. Authorised associations provided primary legal assistance in 16408 cases. The primary legal aid in most cases was provided in the form of legal advice of 8,847 cases. A total of 5,850 requests for the approval of secondary legal aid provided by lawyers were received during the reporting period and 4,109 of which were granted. Secondary legal aid in the light of the type of proceedings was most often granted in the family relations procedures of a total of 1.558 cases, and in relation to the forms of secondary legal aid in most cases it was granted in the form of exemption from the payment of court fees. The majority of secondary legal aid concerns civil proceedings and proceedings in the field of administrative judicial proceedings. As regards civil proceedings in this domain, help is also involved for citizens who have the right to secondary legal assistance, and it concerns cases of legal consultation and representation in matters of enforcement. The total planned funds for the organisation and provision of free legal aid in 2019 amounted to HRK 3,932,100. Compared to 2018, this was a slightly smaller amount, which was 4.012,000 kuna. In 2019, 22 projects of authorised associations and 3 projects of law schools were financed to provide primary legal assistance. As far as secondary legal aid is concerned, this legal aid provided by lawyers compared to the previous years, we increased the fee to lawyers per hour, before it was 5 kuna, now it's per hour representing 7 kuna. In view of the specific issues raised in the discussions of the Justice Committee, so we talked about how administrative supervision is being carried out and why in certain counties this was asked by MP Vesna Nadj at the Justice Committee, so the inquiry that I have been asked in certain counties, the administrative authorities of the county in determining the property of the applicant, so when applying for free legal assistance there are certain precise categories that can use the right to free legal assistance, and sometimes the data from the competent authorities, such as the Tax Administration, HZMO, MUP, and municipal courts, land-registered departments, banks, etc., and, in some cases this period of 15 days is longer, so that certain cases of processing, and also in the districts of Brod-Posavina, Koprivnica-Crivnica and the Istria County, can be seen as having access to the legal assistance provided in this case, in order to all cases, and in order to ensure that in order to ensure that in case, in case, in case, in case, in case, in case, in case, in case, we can be taken, in case, in case, in case, in case, in case, in case of legal management, the city, the city and in case, the city, the city, the City has been taken, in case in case, and in case, in case, in case, in case, in case of law, in case in case of law, in case in case, and in case in case, the relevant. Here is a short one, we suggest that this report be accepted to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9575	I thank the secretary of state, there are two replicas. Comrade Kajtazi, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9576	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State I know that you are very well aware that the only members of the Roma national minority have several strategic documents, among which you know that there was also a national strategy and a national programme for the Roma, an operational programme for the Roma national minority, among other things you remember that between 2005 and 2015 there was a decade. It was then that the provision of free legal assistance was made and it proved to be excellent. I'm just curious if there's again the possibility of providing free legal assistance in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9577	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9578	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. We have often discussed the problem of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia, of course it does. We are working in our solutions and for this year in which we are now and for the next to expand that network to all counties and offices even more, and also to enable the dissemination of spectrum of legal assistance both associations in both primary and secondary lawyers. There are a number of problems... some of the financial resources we've approved haven't even been spent, some of the funds are back in the budget because there are reasons. So, in these precisely mentioned conditions where free legal aid can be used in some cases, it happens that our checks lead to us starting approval that a solution is allowed, but subsequent information if we get solutions we have to abolish them because it happens that some of our citizens do not have the right to help, so that we want to direct really the right to free legal assistance to those who really need it, those who do not know and those who need or legal advice or legal services.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9579	Thank you very much. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9580	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm someone who really appreciates the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, and I dare say that I know him somewhat. However, in 2016 and 2017 we had 55 associations and legal clinics registered on the list of providers of free legal aid, 2018. 57, 2019. 47, there are 54 at the moment. As a user of a free legal aid provider, how often does this list be updated because I have been reviewing it that there are associations on it that are no longer engaged in providing free legal assistance?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9581	Thank you very much, counsel. We are in certain situations with some associations following their activities on the ground, so any association providing free legal assistance is obliged at the end of the period which we follow for a year, 30 days after the end of that period to inform the Ministry of Justice and the administration of how the funds, how many users, are financial, which are legal advice so what they did. In some situations, we had some associations not doing their duty properly, so we asked for funds from such associations, and we had a lot of complaints from the users that some were adequately or professionally not doing it. And we also have associations that have a lot of burdens, and they work very well, so that the Department of Justice and the administration's administrative supervision is constantly working. I've been looking for the secretary of state myself since this is an important area for me, too, to strengthen administrative surveillance. We have a number of officials and we want to strengthen it with the number of people who will work on it because everyone must have adequate and adequate and professional legal assistance and we will work on it together. Here's every piece of advice, and the recommendation is welcome from the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9582	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Justice Committee? No, he doesn't have that kind of desire. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and Honored counterpart Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9583	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. This document that we're talking about today is more important than it seems at first sight. Free legal aid from the Institute is provided to all citizens, but also to other persons equality before the court and other public institutions or equality of people before the law. So I also said that this report is not something to ignore and work at will, and that is exactly what it looks like when you look at a chart on page 7 of the report, which instead of specific figures on the used forms of primary legal aid in 2019 is not a percentage in which a certain form of legal assistance is provided but only writes in English. But well, let's go to the content itself or to statistical indicators where there are some illogicalities in the document, too. Free legal assistance can be provided in the form of primary and secondary real assistance provided exclusively by lawyers, which should provide professional assistance and in the most complex cases. And now we're coming back to some numbers that don't match the look, so I'm asking you to explain to us what this is all about. Therefore, 5,850 requests for secondary legal aid were submitted in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019. Out of the total number of approved applications, 4.109 requests were granted, 680 were rejected, 116 were suspended, 263, 33 applications were submitted and 649 requests were made in the decision-making procedure on 31 December 2019. In the case of a form of procedure, it is stated that secondary legal aid in most cases has been granted in a form exempt from payment of court fees in 4,072 cases, then in the form of representation in court proceedings 2,826 cases and in the form of exemption from the costs of court proceedings 2,363 cases, etc. And we are now coming up with secondary legal aid statistics in view of the type of procedure, so it is most often approved in family relations procedures of a total of 1.558 cases, in procedures related to real rights, secondary rights aid has been granted 288 cases, etc., up to a figure of around 2,600. If we said that a total of around 4,100 requests were granted, where is the difference between 2,600 to 4,100 when it comes to figures in view of the type of procedure? I would now like to say a word about free legal aid providers in which lawyers only provide secondary legal assistance to authorised associations, higher schools that conduct university studies with... areas of law through legal clinics and the administration of state administrations in the county and in the City of Zagreb. In the reporting period of the authorised association, which was 47, so many authorised associations were registered in the register with 31 December 2019. They provided primary legal assistance in the total of 16 408 cases of the legal clinic and 1,821 cases, and public administration offices in the counties, City Office for the General Administration of the City of Zagreb 2 450 cases. This data shows that the offices of the state administration in 20 counties and city offices of the City of Zagreb had just about 30% more cases of providing primary legal assistance from legal clinics organised at 3 law schools. So Zagreb, Osijek and Split. When it comes to legal clinics, colleges, we should know that we are talking about groups of volunteer students at 3 law schools working under the mentorship of their professors or lawyers. It should be commendable that the funds for free legal aid when they are seen for the last 3 years are growing. This is commendable because it is obvious that awareness of the need for available legal assistance is developing, but the need is obviously greater given the large number of socially endangered citizens in our society. Of the total funds planned for the organisation and provision of free legal assistance for the provision of primary legal aid, an amount of 1 918 498.62 kuna was paid and a amount of 1 901 195,29 kuna was paid for the provision of secondary legal aid. Compared to the total amount paid for free legal aid, the percentage of funds paid for primary legal aid is 50.23%, while for secondary legal aid is about 49.77%. On the other hand, when you look beyond the previous 3 years, you come up with a slightly different number. For example, in 2015 the total budget amount for free legal aid was 9 million kuna, of which a million and a half of them went to primary legal aid. So the primary then is as isolated as we are today for both primary and secondary. Otherwise, the list of users of free legal aid is not explicitly referred to as non-citizens who, because of their status, represent a particularly endangered social group and need professional assistance in the exercise of citizenship rights. There are plenty of cases relating to members of the Russian national minority that I represent, especially women who are getting married in Croatia and who are having a hard time coming to citizenship even though many of them have been living with us for a very long time. As for free legal aid intended for exclusive members of the Roma national minority, it was previously provided through several projects. Thus, under the implementation of the National Programme for Roma, the Ministry of Justice was ensured to provide free legal assistance with status issues which represent one of the most common problems of the Roma population and a prerequisite for the exercise of health, social care, education and employment rights. The project was conducted through direct cooperation with lawyers in the area of Međimurska, Primorje-goranska, Brodsko-Posaviska and the City of Zagreb. The status rights around which Roma were granted legal aid included the procedures for the establishment and acquisition of citizenship, the regulation of residence, the determination of the facts of the existence of marriage, the birth of a child, the recognition and identification of motherhood, or paternity, etc. ... The legal center from Slavonski Brod also had a project in collaboration with this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] on the free legal assistance for Roma status issues during which the implementation of the Centre staff visited Roma settlements, all those projects were implemented during the decade of the conclusion of Roma in 2005/2015, and since then there has been a sudden decline in the provision of free legal assistance to Roma. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the state of most Roma populations in Croatia, I call on the Ministry of Justice to try to find the model of legal assistance for the Roma as it was in that decade because it proved to be very useful for members of the Roma community. For the normal functioning of the free legal assistance system in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to ensure a more significant allocation of funds from the state budget compared to the current allocation. Since the Law on Free Legal Assistance provides for the financing of legal aid from the State budget, such circumstances have led to a significant reduction in international donations for these purposes. Also, numerous competitions that are being discussed in the Republic of Croatia in... contain an explicit provision that projects financed under specific laws will not be approved and financed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And lastly, again, I have to go over some of the report's composers because they've been under review and they've written... two sentences, and in summary, instead of a brief review of the situation, they only stated... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Content in several passports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's too bad, as I said before, this document deserves a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9584	The second club is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, a respected colleague of the Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9585	The Honorable President of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of resources for 2019. As the previous colleague said, a very important report. Free legal aid is regulated by the Law on Free Legal Assistance and is intended to achieve effective legal protection for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and other persons in accordance with this law. The primary legal assistance, i.e. legal advice aimed at detecting and resolving a specific legal problem, included associations in line with approved projects in competition, legal clinics and the Office of State Administration in Countys. At the end of 2019, a total of 47 authorised associations were registered in the register to provide free legal assistance, i.e. primary legal assistance. During the period from 1 January to 21 December 2019, the primary legal aid was granted in 20 679 cases. Secondary legal assistance shall be provided by lawyers in civil, judicial and administrative proceedings. Secondary legal aid is related to income and property censorship, but there are exceptions to the censorship, so it is good that secondary legal aid is not strictly linked to income and property censorship. It concerns the fact that there has been a reduction in the number of lawyers providing secondary legal assistance although, as we heard from the secretary of state, the price has been increased, so we should see how to encourage lawyers to provide secondary legal assistance. When we talk about income and property censorship, secondary legal aid will be granted if the total income of applicants and household members does not pass on a monthly basis per household member amount from the budget basis, it is actually 3326 kuna and if the total value of the assets owned by the applicant and members of the household does not exceed 60 budget bases, meaning a total of EUR 199,560. Legal aid will be granted, so that if the assumptions above are not met, if the applicant is not able for objective reasons to be available in total, in total income and assets, therefore for health reasons and for some reasons concerning education and for more force of earthquakes, floods, fires and the like. State administrations shall decide on a request to grant secondary legal assistance within 15 days of the regulatory request. The report states that, taking into account the unresolved requirements for secondary legal aid on 31 December 2018, there were 8795 requirements in the reporting period, of which 2088 requests were pending, which seems to me to be quite large. It is not clear from the report why some public administration and county offices had so many pending cases, although the secretary of state states that, therefore, they sought data from other public authorities, tax administrations and others and did not update the records, it is again unclear why the Brod-Posavia County alone has 495 outstanding cases, Istria 409, and Koprivnica-Kryzeva County 313, when others were able to resolve them on an up-to-date basis. The fact is that the administration or public administration at the end of the year cleans out drawers, so no one will normally allow themselves to have so many pending cases in the record, especially if the report goes to HS. Of the total number of users of secondary legal assistance, the most users of secondary legal aid had residence or residence in Krapina-Zagorje County 594, second place is Istria 533, and third town of Zagreb. It would still be normal for us to have so much of this secondary legal aid in the city of Zagreb given the size, but we do not understand, so we do not have an analysis of the criteria why we have so much in Istria County. We have at least the demands in Sibenik-Kninska. Why? We don't have a reference. So we need to analyze a little bit more in the next report of that data. Of the total funds planned for organising and providing free legal assistance, we spent a million 918.498 for the primary one, and for a secondary million 901.195 kuna. The mandated associations and law schools for projects to provide primary legal assistance from the state budget paid a million and 918.498 kuna. The report does not state the clear criteria for the granting of funds to primary legal assistance associations, since e.g. The association ‘B.a.b.e.’ received total for all forms of primary health care, meaning that 1682 items were implemented and 85,000 kuna were paid for, and the Domina association, for example, the organisation for the promotion of women's rights has done a total of only 112 items, and 69,250 kuna has been paid, so it should be seen little about the criteria of granting funds to associations. That's what I suggest in the next report is listed, so that we don't have these dilemmas. In any event, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this report for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9586	Thank you, too. The 3rd club is SDSS's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9587	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Secretary of State. As we had the opportunity to hear before us is a report on the implementation of free legal aid and spending for 2019. and these things actually stand so that in 2019 primary legal aid was provided in 20679 cases, and secondary, pardon total is 20679 cases, of which 16408 is primary and slightly less secondary. And it's important to point out that it's mostly on that number in the last few years, so the number is approximated and varied. What is important to say, who are actually the most frequent users of free legal aid? These are pensioners employed by the minimal, unemployed and people with disabilities, all those who can't pay a lawyer or a lawyer to write a memo, to write a complaint to them in case the HEP cuts off their electricity or when a large interest is calculated in relation to them, a large amount of interest for the performance of the water line issued or when the mother asks for alimony, when a divorced wife, so she asks for alimony. These are the most common cases that require free legal aid. Free legal aid providers, and as we had the chance to hear in 2019, there are 57, mostly complaining that the funds are insufficient. Although in the last two years we have actually increased in the budget, so now I'm talking about 2019, we increased the amount by 22.4% to happiness in 2020, and that's what's good. However, by listening to free legal aid providers, they tell us that it is still insufficient and because, on average, the primary legal aid user has been spent on 92.78 kunas and the second-hand legal aid user is 324.99 kuna per user. This is still little compared to one European average and in relation to the importance that this Institute of Free Legal Assistance otherwise known and as a poor right should, should be produced so that certainly this progress in the increase is welcome and this continuity certainly needs to be continued and that is what is very good, but we must bear in mind that providers believe that more is needed. The providers still believe that, in fact, to achieve this one European, we have achieved this one European threshold in order to be good, it is welcome to increase it. We have one situation which is also a positive example, which is that we have almost reached equalisation of the number of users of primary legal aid and secondary legal aid. In this way, we prevent the use of primary legal aid, prevent and avoid long-term court proceedings, and thus discharging the already overbooked justice system. And here's one of the reasons why I think there should be an increase in the amount of funds for free legal aid. In fact, here's how people don't go into court dispute, and that's what needs to be reduced anyway, so to give them legal aid, primary legal aid that no, there's no need to get into a court dispute in cases where that's, of course, possible and where justified. In previous years, when we were discussing the Institute of Free Legal Assistance and the spending of funds, the providers mainly complained about the uncertainty of the height and the urgency of the grant of money, it is now an opportunity to say that it is no longer available or in the last 2 years that the funds are paid in time, which ensure the continued work of the associations because it is not bad to say that these organisations provide free legal aid are mainly financed from the budget and they are largely and have no other option and therefore it is important that they receive funds at the beginning of the year to achieve their basic role and thus actually achieve their basic purpose of their existence because these organisations defacto provide free legal assistance throughout the year. So they have no interruptions because they haven't been paid off, but as I said in the last two years, this situation has progressed and the funds are paid off in time. Another thing that free legal aid providers have pointed out as very desirable, which is a little better advertising for free providers, at all, for the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. And here I am going to take this opportunity and maybe make an appeal to the state-run HRT media house so it might be useful if we had an ad that warns people that, in fact, which people, is getting to know them that there's a possibility of using free legal aid. Although there is no direct link to this report, I must mention one justifiable fear expressed by the providers of free legal assistance from the list, from the list, which are actually SNV and the ZVO, which is that, of course, it concerns the issue of enrolment and registration of Croatian citizens, i.e. for the identification of issues relating to the new Law on Croatian Citizenship, which entered into force 31. 12. 2 and, and 31.12.2021 respectively, as the number of cases in this area has increased enormously, there is a legitimate fear that a person and provider could, on this basis, become Croatian citizens that because of the short term of the consequences and conditions caused by the Covida-19 epidemic and the slowness in resolving the proceedings before the MUP would actually miss this deadline. And now here's the chance to say that this two-year-old is not actually going to be 2 years, but it's been more than 6 months and as I said because of the pandemic and because of the non-resolvence and slowness in, the procedures in front of the MUP will be significantly reduced and I think maybe it's time to think about it. As I was saying, I know this may not concern you directly when it comes to this report, but whether or not the Justice Department should consider this extension. Because what does that mean? People who have the right to Croatian citizenship will not have it because they will miss deadlines, not by their own free will. So either way, as I said at the beginning, I think we need a little more of this institute to advertise, to allow people to be as accessible as they are now and as I said either way, the SDSS Attorneys' Club will support this report by the Justice Department on the implementation of free legal aid and spending on free legal aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9588	We are now going to the fourth debate, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9589	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to briefly sum up a few things related to this report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds for the same in 2019. As I think already said today, this Institute in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and the law regulates the purpose, users and type of legal assistance, providers, conditions and procedure for the exercise of the right to help, financing legal aid and supervision of law enforcement. The Ministry of Justice and Administration monitors the implementation of the law and is required to submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia each year on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and on the funds spent, and this report is submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament. The purpose of this Institute of Free Legal Assistance is to achieve, above all, the equality of all before the law, and in particular to protect the socially and economically threatened or most needy citizens. This report is divided into seven wholes. The first three parts of the report provide an overview of the legislative and institutional framework for free legal assistance. The central part of the report is part 4 and 5 which gives a statistical overview of the exercise of the right to primary and secondary legal assistance and the financing of primary and secondary legal assistance in 2019. The final part of the report shall be the 6th and 7th part, describing the activities of the Ministry of Justice and in the process of further strengthening the system of free legal assistance and assessing the situation in view of the results achieved during the observed period. Primary legal assistance, which primarily includes legal counseling of users of free rights of assistance, provides authorised associations, legal clinics of law schools and offices of state administrations in the counties and the City of Zagreb, which certainly contributes to territorial availability and help which has led to the increase of the number of users. The forms of primary legal assistance are general legal information, legal advice, the assembly of submissions before public authorities, the European Court of Human Rights and international organisations in accordance with international contracts and rules on the work of those bodies, representation in proceedings before public authorities, and legal assistance in the non-judicial peaceful settlement of the dispute. Secondary legal aid concerns the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and the exemption from the costs of court proceedings and the release from payment of court fees, and the provision of legal advice, the assembly of submissions in the process of protecting workers' rights against the employer, the assembly of court proceedings and representation in court proceedings and legal assistance in the peaceful settlement of the dispute. Leaving a strict property censorship allows access to more users, and including lawyers as sole service providers provides professional legal assistance, especially in those most complicated and demanding cases. For the purpose of monitoring the legal assistance system, the Commission for Free Legal Assistance shall also be established, it shall monitor and analyse the state of approval and use of legal assistance, consider the proposal for an annual report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and on the spending of funds, give opinions on projects of authorised associations and legal clinics, give proposals and an opinion to improve the legal assistance system. During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, the primary legal aid was granted in 20.679 cases. Authorised associations provided primary legal assistance in 16,408 cases, legal clinics in 1,821 cases, and public administration offices in the county and the City General Administration Office of the City of Zagreb in 2,450 cases. The primary legal aid in most cases was provided in the form of legal advice in 8,847 cases and in the form of a submission to the public authorities. A total of 5,850 requests for the approval of secondary legal aid from which 4.109 applications were granted were accepted, 680 were rejected and 116 applications rejected. On 31.12.2019, a total of 2,088 requests were made. In view of the type of procedure, secondary legal aid was most often approved in family relations procedures and in a total of 1,558 cases. As regards the forms of secondary legal aid in most cases, it was granted in the form of exemption from the payment of court fees in 4,072 cases. Total planned funds for the organisation and provision of free legal aid in 2019 amounted to 3 million 932 thousand kuna. That was a little less than when we compare to 2018. It is important to point out that a public tender is being opened each year for the allocation of funds for the financing of projects of the associations authorised to provide primary legal assistance and a law school for work and legal clinics and these funds are allocated from the funds provided in the state budget for the provision of primary legal assistance. In 2019, 22 projects of authorised associations and 3 projects of legal universities were financed to provide primary legal assistance. In order to provide secondary legal assistance, an amount of 900 and nearly 2,000 kuna was paid, covering fees for the work of lawyers, experts and interpreters, witness costs, insights and court ads, advances outside court proceedings against consumers, and advances in the cost of consumer bankruptcy proceedings. On a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted a Regulation on the value of the amount to determine the compensation for the provision of secondary legal aid for 2019, which increased this compensation granted by lawyers and that value of the point that was previously 5 kuna has now been established at 7 kuna. I think that it is good and that in the future we should try to follow this trend of growth and compensation so that indeed those who provide free legal assistance would be adequately rewarded for their work, but also motivated to do so. The Ministry of Administration and Justice is responsible for the proper functioning of the system of free legal assistance and by its active approach certainly contributes to the improvement of this system in order to be as close as possible to those citizens who need to use the service of free legal assistance and also exercise the right to the same. The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9590	Thank you. We are now going to the debate of the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Davor Dretar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9591	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, the purpose of free legal assistance is to achieve equality of all before the law and to ensure the effective achievement of legal protection and access to court and other public bodies under equal conditions. These are values, universal values that society seems more and more threatened by society. The law should contribute to more effective legal protection of the social and economic most needy citizens, and unfortunately, more and more every day. In any case, the commendation is the spread of forms of primary legal assistance, thus enabling user advice to identify and address a specific legal problem, and including civil society associations, legal clinics and public administration bodies in the system has increased the territorial availability of primary legal assistance. This resulted in an increase in the number of users, while simplifying the process of exercising the right to primary legal assistance. Secondary legal aid concerns the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and the release of the costs of court proceedings and court charges. Leaving a strict property censorship allows for a greater number of users to access secondary aid. The inclusion of a lawyer as the sole provider of secondary legal aid has provided assistance in the most complex cases. But given the ever lower standard and financial uncertainty of citizens, we keep measures like these necessary. Legal security with the physical security of citizens should be among our priorities as a community. The physical security of these days is the topic that everyone speaks of from many aspects and, of course, we also talk about the general safety of life in Croatia. All the time, there is a question of the responsibility of the current government and of all those so far, which has made us a better and safer society for life. Safety above all means that we are equal to the institutions, that we have equal opportunities in society, adequate health care and more than anything that makes life safe in civilised and democratic societies. Today I want to tell you about the motherhood of the state to its citizens, through just a few small examples. Croatians pay one of the largest excise duties in Europe, for example, a car that the German, Austrian or Dutch buys in their country costs up to 50% cheaper or less than ours in Croatia, and we know how much income they receive from ours. Why is that? Of course, among other things, because of a bunch of fiscal and parafiscal duties that sometimes serve to protect our industry, but in this case we don't. If you buy a Croatian car with additional transport security equipment and this will be treated as a luxury and additionally penalized in terms of the collection of import duties. We know ourselves that we have one of the oldest fleets in Europe and as a terrible consequence of one of the highest rates of mortality in traffic accidents. How did Croatia begin to solve this problem? There is a significant increase in penalties and, of course, a blow to the people because penalization seems to be the only solution for people who are in power. These are all products of an outdated way of thinking that can't imagine that prevention is much more effective than penalization. We, through income and through any purchase, pay inefficient, tromic state apparatus that does not want to reform, does not want to serve its people but to rule them, but that is not all. Speaking of vehicles, when that machine ran out of money in the bank, they also abolished the pre-tax on the purchase of official vehicles and, of course, turned a huge amount of money into their own bank. They don't know that we don't encourage tax incentives, we choke investment, we block possible job openings, we endanger social security, etc. If the state had finally treated its citizens with equal treatment, if physical and legal certainty had indeed been placed on the list of priorities and very high, if it had taken care of young people, jobs, the survival of villages and rural areas, then surely the number of users of free legal aid would not have grown as visible from this report, but would have been reduced, and our economy would have finally started to grow and Croatia would have been really the country we dreamt of all who loved it and in which to live. In any case, the Home Movement Club will support this report, and since I have a little time left, I would like to read you a Facebook status that has taken a lot of attention these days. I'm not talking about these current Facebook statuses of Croatian politicians. I'm talking about the Facebook status of a nurse. She compared two calls, two jobs, two occupations. Nurses and that parliamentary representative, or representative. I'll quote actually read her status completely. The nurse's going on a night drive, going on a night shift, sorry. He's driving ten miles, coming to work on a 12-hour shift. Shares of patients with dinner and therapy, gives medications and injections, a spoon feeds those who can't eat, wash and change patients, shaves men who can't do it themselves, appears all night at the patient's bell, watch out for infusions in those who get them. Two hours after midnight, he's holding up a new patient that the E.R. brought in. At 3:00 a.m., a man falls into arrest, looking for a doctor, and they're able to revive him. After 12 hours, a nurse rides home again for 10 km, looks forward and waits for her to go to bed for a six thousand kuna salary. Parliamentary representative, I say again, I read the status. He wakes up in the morning in an apartment he doesn't pay, decides not to go to work today so he goes into town for coffee, reads the paper there, gets hungry, goes to the Parliament for lunch for several kunas, maybe drives by public transport he doesn't pay or calls the driver to pick him up. Then he's already so tired of going to an apartment that doesn't pay to watch a little TV and sleep for 20 grand. The nurse doesn't have the right to an underprivileged job internship and a privileged pension, the parliamentary representative has. This status of one nurse received tens of thousands of so-called. Lykes. We all know who we are in this system, and I also believe that citizens who reason on thinking that these above-mentioned privileges, of course, do not enjoy the vast majority of parliamentary representatives or parliamentary representatives, but I wanted to point out to you what people think about us and our privileges and the way we work here. And especially at this point when this is our last day of work, at least for the next two weeks, I ask why. Why now that we really have hundreds of problems You're absolutely right, Mr. President. [[I'm going to interrupt you now because you're talking out of the question, I let you...]] Absolutely. I'll put my mask on like you put a mask on the mouth of all of us who might stand up to you in the next two weeks. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9592	Yes, it is. Today, you have over 1100 infected, so you walk without a mask if you think that's okay. There is now a respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic, a party representative with a name and name, Smart and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9593	The Honorable President of HS, fellow MPs and MPs. The ruling love of the word "safety", they also called that a programme to be implemented by the Government in this term, but given the state of state and society, the word is increasingly losing its contents and importance every day. A state that is unable to guarantee its citizens security is not a state in the fullest sense of the word. In addition to the safety of life and health, a particularly important aspect of the concept of security that the state should guarantee its citizens is the rule of law, and then, among other things, the right to a fair trial and so on. The equality of weapons before the court, and thus equality before the law in general. Because, and in practice, they cannot be equal to those who, because of the ignorance and inability to properly represent their rights and interests, cannot fight for what their dry legal norm is in principle guaranteed. To that end, there are lawyers, but in vain there are lawyers for those who can't afford a lawyer, and there are more and more lawyers in our country every day. The exercise of the Constitution and the laws of guaranteed rights cannot depend on the financial opportunities of those who are sentenced before courts and other competent authorities to seek legal assistance. Therefore, the right to free legal aid is a prerequisite for the exercise of the right to a fair trial and an effective legal remedy and contributes to strengthening trust in equality of access to justice. Therefore, the state must provide an effective system that enables citizens of poorer property to receive timely legal protection. On the contrary, the attorney general has for years been warning HS about the insufficient effectiveness of this institute, and I will remind you that we have not even discussed the 2018 Report yet. This is due to insufficient financial separation for providers and insufficient information from citizens. This means that the state does not ensure its fundamental purpose of achieving equality between all citizens before the law. During 2019, the Advocate General received 50% more complaints than in 2018 because of the lack of this right and because of the difficulty in hiring a lawyer, on the one hand, and on the other, because of the long-term resolution of requests for secondary legal aid. This is due to the fact that certain administrative departments in the counties are inequitablely addressing demands, but also the citizens are underusing this institute for their lack of information, so they are too late to submit requests, while the deadlines for submitting complaints, complaints, lawsuits or any other legal means are due. However, despite recommendations on the need for greater availability and greater information for citizens, so far it is only possible to find them on the website of the Ministry of Justice and the providers of these services, the state is doing nothing to ensure that citizens can find out how they can seek free legal assistance when they find themselves in a particular problem. In complaints, citizens also point out the problem of determining lawyers in the secondary free legal assistance system because of the inequality of the conduct of individual competent authorities. In fact, somewhere, it is required that a lawyer agree to agree to provide free legal assistance, while certain offices consider that this has already been settled the moment they issue a solution themselves. . /. Therefore, if the state cannot through its competent offices and bodies ensure equal treatment, then we cannot talk about any law in this country being realised independently of which county is in a particular case. Also, it often happens that lawyers reject parties sent through a system of free legal assistance, especially in cases that are conducted in areas outside their office because they are not paid travel expenses, so it is increasingly less lawyers and willing to be on the list of Croatian Bars for the provision of these services, for example in Zadar County which has more than 170 000 inhabitants, only 7 lawyers participate in this system. One of the reasons is the low amount of the value of the points on which the fee is determined and thus increased from 5 to 7 kn in 2019, but remains lower than the fee for regular legal services, which at one point is 10 kuna. For years, the Ombudsman also points out that there are difficulties in financing the primary legal aid providers, and this is due to an inadequate system of allocations of funds. So, even though the last 2 years of competitions are being reviewed within the legal deadline, until the end of these tenders, until the final payment of the funds has been made, several months. And during these few months, providers have no financial support and are forced to reduce their activities, which means that the Institute does not work in practice. During this period where there is no financial payment from the budget to those associations and legal persons providing free legal assistance, this institute is only a dead letter on paper and not a mechanism to which the state guarantees equality of arms and equal chances of representing those who are in fact the most unruly and impoverished, most vulnerable group in our society. So from the way this institute is used, it turns out that the state has designed a difficult and inefficient system for the most vulnerable and poor groups and even worse than that, the state does not react and does not change the obviously poorly designed system. From the Justice Department's report on the exercise of this right and on the spending of funds, it follows that associations and legal clinics provide more than 80% of the primary or primary right of legal aid and, with due respect for these legal persons and commendation for their efforts, I believe that the state should do much more to ensure that citizens are more accessible to lawyers, however, lawyers are those who can provide the rights and representation of their rights with much more quality and better. It is therefore necessary to develop a more effective framework for the allocation of financial resources, for example through years of programme funding, and this is exactly what the Advocate General has repeatedly pointed out and sought in its reports, but the state has no hearing for these recommendations. And all if all those recommendations that the Ombudsman has advocated were implemented, the question would be sufficient because given the rise in poverty and the risk of poverty, I believe it is high time to move towards more radical changes in the system of providing free legal assistance and a multiple increase in the amount that the state provides for this purpose on its budget. And now to show it in plastic. The total allocated resources for 2019 and in the 2020 and 2021 projections are slightly larger than 4 million kuna and it would be interesting to sum up how much public authorities have spent on the legal services they engage themselves and if we were to sum up the amounts of all cities, municipalities, public-owned companies, the total figure for lawyers today would be frightening. And if that amount were to be put in comparison with the amount that the state singles out for those categories of citizens who can't afford a lawyer on their own, we would get a devastating answer to the question of what is the right to equality in this country, so the right to equality of arms really means. What I stand for and what I point out on more than any occasion when the topic of the agenda allows me is a requirement to introduce full fiscal transparency, that means the publication of all payments and payment of all public-legal bodies. If this were to be introduced, and especially in relation to the legal services provided by lawyers to cities, municipalities, public-owned companies, I think it would cause rebellion, justifiable rebellion to these very dissuaded and impoverished citizens. But after that rebellion, I think that we would also get a chance to finally put the system on sound ground, on healthy feet, and in a more just system designed to serve the needs of all of our citizens, finally take the right course forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9594	We've come to an end with clubs, now we're going to individual debates, dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9595	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. At the very beginning, we have a report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid, we have talked a lot in the debates about what is exactly the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, who can use it and where it is intended, which is governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Normal, is the purpose of achieving equality in the court of all our citizens, especially this social component, the people who are most needed and that have effective legal protection in our society. As far as primary and secondary aid is concerned, we know and we have seen in the statistics of the report itself, which was used by the legal advice itself as a form of legal aid received, putting together some simpler submissions up to the secondary legal aid provided by lawyers and law firms, when these submissions take the course of the court and only normally, representing before the court and what may be most popular with our citizens when using this institute, it is a release from the court fees, whether it relates to the costs of the court proceedings, whether generally for court fees. We have also opened the topic of the number of associations and law firms that are currently providing themselves with free legal assistance, we have seen that in 2019 primary legal aid was provided in over 20,000 cases, mostly in the form of legal advice. . /. Of the other secondary legal aid, there were 5850 requests, and these are mostly the procedures in family relations before courts. I think that's understandable. When we look at the total statistics, it's a good thing it's increased exactly this point fee for lawyers from 5 to 7 kuna. Al, here he would open up in this brief debate perhaps two topics, two of which should definitely be given an emphasis in the ministry, which is the form of both primary and secondary legal assistance, and this is legal aid in the orange peaceful settlement of the dispute and legal aid in the peaceful settlement of the dispute. I think that exactly mediation and peaceful dispute resolution can be the result of better statistics in general of our judicial system, and it can also be dragged through free legal aid precisely this kind of mediation, but normal and encouraging both lawyers and lawyers themselves, but also those seeking their day in court, are looking for their dispute resolution to join precisely the peaceful settlement of disputes and the mediation itself. When we look at the statistics of the non-judicial and judicial settlement itself, it is good for those who use the institute, so here we can also praise this route and the Croatian Peace Association itself, here is the judge Dr. For many years, with the mediation itself, 80% of success is precisely mediation and disputes that come. The first meeting of the parties asking for the help of the mediation itself is now being resolved in 50% of the cases. It is important that free legal assistance as an institute is normal for lawyers, that lawyers apply it, it is important that the ministry has a little better communication and that it invests more in the legal clinics at our universities and law schools, because if we train students that it is normal to provide free legal assistance, even if it was in the simplest form of one easy legal advice or a short submission, I think that definitely those future lawyers will be better quality lawyers and judges in the future and will have one sensitivity when a person comes to them asking for help, and maybe they can't afford it before the court. And what I've reported here is I appeal to the ministry itself to take exactly mediation and peace as a serious institute that when we see the costs of the litigation itself and how much these personal disputes that we're launching, I think mediation is a great way to make sure that, with free legal aid, we can fully relieve our courts, but also help ourselves and normal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9596	There were no replicas, so we end up with an individual debate. Let's go to the final address, Green-Left Block Representative Club, respected colleague Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9597	I thank you, Mr. President, for your esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, as we have heard on several occasions, I would join these estimates that the amount allocated annually for free legal aid for our citizens is extremely low and, in fact, when we look at it and compare it to what needs are and how many people are at risk of poverty, it is actually negligible. Let's just imagine giving this amount to any body of the state administration for the total legal aid it receives at the annual level, what we could do with it, and with this we are covering all the needs of legal assistance, means both primary and secondary to our citizens who are socially, socially at risk. What I particularly wanted to emphasize is the things that the Ombudsman and co-worker Oreskovic pointed out before me, which is that we still have a great difficulty in hiring lawyers to provide secondary legal assistance, we know that this is because they are extremely, extremely low. Then, another thing is the deadlines under which the Ministry of Justice settles complaints. So, the deadlines in which the appeals are resolved need, it's eight days. However, in her report, the Ombudsman reported that one of the key problems is that, the fact that complaints are not resolved within that period and then actually people are missing legal action and losing, they are losing the possibility of actually hiring secondary legal aid. Also, what citizens point out as a problem is the question of determining a lawyer. So, practice, the practice of some bodies at regional and local level, is that they determine a lawyer who will be contacted for secondary legal aid, while other bodies are asking for the person seeking secondary legal assistance to find a lawyer and bring his consent that he will indeed take the case. So we need to level this practice in order for citizens to actually know in which way and in which part they have to participate in hiring a lawyer for secondary legal aid. The biggest problem is the financing of the primary legal assistance system. So that's one of the issues I've really been working on since the negotiations with EU entry when we actually put the issue of free legal assistance, civil society organisations as one of the criteria for Chapter 23, because that is, of course, the question of access to the justice of citizens before the law. Since then, the system has not actually changed and has not improved unfortunately. The allocations are still small, and the system of financing primary legal assistance which is projected from year to year is bad. Why is it bad? Therefore, during a period of 2-3 months, the requirements for obtaining funds are evaluated.... /. ...to provide primary legal assistance by associations for next year. Until then, associations are de facto without funds and cannot provide or do those activities that fall under primary assistance. So, again, we've been looking for this before, secure years of funding, ensure the evaluation at three years level, the quality of the providers, and then if the associations pass the evaluation and if they meet those criteria to fund them for a few years. This from year to year, except that it burdens the Ministry of Justice with red tape, also burdens primary legal aid providers. I'll say one more thing. If this amount that we have here in total for both primary and secondary real assistance, at some average price that for some activity, is either primary or secondary legal aid, we could not include 20% of the people who will be blocked from next week. Not even 20% of them. So, 101 thousand people from next week will be undercover and are expected directly into the blockade. The funds we spend each year, even 20% of them couldn't cover it. So let's imagine now... In a situation, to imagine the situation that we still have the opportunity and the power to solve this issue here, all of us sitting here have the power to postpone it and say, yes, we'll support the proposal of conclusion, we'll postpone the moratorium, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we will save 101 thousand people [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-16-0.u9598	This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm locking them up. We'll vote today at 12 o'clock. Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2019 The applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2019 is accepted." Who is in favour? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 93 MPs and MPs, 80 for, 11 abstentions, 2 against and the conclusion has been reached that it was proposed by the home constituency working body. . /.
