ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182756	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. We move to the agenda point: - Final proposal of the Private Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 635; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 635. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the motionary, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182757	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of HS, Your Honor. MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Private Protection Act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to strengthen the private protection activity and since this law was in force for almost 17 years with two smaller novels in 2011 proposes a new Private Protection Act to improve this activity, physical and technical protection in practice. Private protection in the Republic of Croatia according to the legislation currently in force was governed by the 2003 Law on Private Protection and given this time-consistency and the need to comply with modern techniques and technologies of protection, it was necessary to approach the creation of a new more modern regulation that would raise the quality of then legal and physical persons dealing with private protection. When we talk about legal and physical persons, private protection is currently carried out in the Republic of Croatia by 253 companies for physical and technical protection, 115 crafts of technical protection and 147 internal guards, and a total of more than 16.5 thousand persons who have the permission of the MUP to carry out private protection activities are active. In the same way, private protection education for the education of guards and security guards is conducted by 49 institutions, which have currently been approved by the MUP for their work. General and applicable law, and this continues and the law which is now, the final draft law which is now before you, regulates the following issues, are the conditions and means of carrying out the private protection activities, namely those activities which are not carried out, i.e. not provided by the State or above the scope provided by the State. At the same time, market conditions for these companies. Furthermore, it is possible to carry out private protection activities of EU members. There is a possibility of carrying out private protection activities on public areas, including private protection, so ensuring peaceful protests and public gatherings, ensuring business and housing, direct physical protection, protecting natural goods and the environment and protecting and accompanying money, securities and valuables. Protection companies and crafts undertake to enter into contracts to carry out these private protection activities, while security companies and crafts are obliged to compensate for any damage they cause by performing private protection activities and are obliged to repay the compensation for damages. Conditions are laid down for the authorisation of private protection activities, for companies and for craftsmen, then conditions for the authorisation of natural persons, guards, security guards and current law and security guards and technicians, and the new law prescribes 2 additional categories of persons, natural persons performing private protection, the detailed education of guards and security guards carried out by institutions and exams by the MUP. In particular, the powers of the security guard and the security guard are laid down from verifying the identity of persons, giving alerts and orders, temporary restrictions on freedom of movement, examination of persons, objects and means of transport, insurance of venues, use of the guard dog, use of the physical force and at the end of the use of firearms. A detailed examination of the legality of the application of the powers of the security guard and guard is required, so that they apply their powers and also carry out administrative inspection supervision of the MUP over this private protection activity. What are the differences between the first and the current law and the law on, the bill here before you, is that private protection is now determined, primarily as a security activity, not just as a service. Therefore, the strong emphasis in this final bill is on private protection activities as a security activity, the risk assessment methodology is established before private protection is established. Therefore, the obligation to draw up an assessment of the threat of an object of space or of a person to determine the actual level of risk in relation to external and internal risk factors shall be prescribed and shall, accordingly, apply both the relevant and the type and quality of protection. Obligations of legal persons and craftsmen which are owners or users of objects categorized in the first or second category to assign a person to the organisation and internal surveillance of the implementation of security shall be introduced. This will raise the level of organisational measures in protected economic facilities and areas with higher categories of threats. More detailed conditions are prescribed which must be met by legal persons and craftsmen and natural persons coming from the EU area. These entities can carry out, register a branch and a separate plant in Croatia and thus carry out their activities. The conditions and methods of performing occasional and temporary private protection activities are introduced and defined primarily for the purpose of the need, so specific situations for the protection of facilities during a shorter period required by outside the Republic of Croatia. The possibility of carrying out private protection activities to be provided and accompanied by the distribution of consignors and the transport of persons with prior approval of the MUP shall be extended. The obligation of a security guard to react and exercise powers exclusively and beyond the perimeter of protection when detecting adverse events from his place of work, but only if the non-implementability of a person is compromised and therefore there is a significant risk of a significant reduction in the value of the property that is subject to protection. The final draft law provides that all private protection operations are to be carried out on the basis of a working contract for a specified or indefinite period of time. So far, some jobs have been able to be done by means of an act contract. This proposal also provides the possibility for craftsmen to carry out physical protection tasks, under the applicable law, only technical protection tasks could be carried out. A further security check shall be introduced not only for the persons responsible in the legal persons and in the crafts for which it has been prescribed, but also for other persons from the registration of the founders of the company. It shall be possible to request the Ministry to carry out a security check in the event of suspicion of criminal or criminal records and of other persons entered in the register of the company or trades and registers which may or may have an impact on the business of the company or crafts, and all in accordance with the provisions of Article 13(2). Security check laws. An operational check for natural persons when only an exceptional condition is carried out prior to the issue of the licence, is therefore not a mandatory condition for the memory of the licence, thus shortening the time of issue of the licence, but, if there is a suspicion of, by searching the records that a certain person is entitled to perform these tasks, this operational verification will be carried out. It is also prescribed that as a keeper, he prepares the basics as a minimum of professional training for primary schools instead of the lower professional training, which was, in fact, a one-year or two-year secondary school for auxiliary workers. So from now on, school would be enough as a minimum level of education to perform but only security work. We believe that the guard performs the tasks of at least risk levels, and given the lack of workers in this activity as well as in some others, we do not think that there is a risk that these persons will do their job worse than those who have lower professional equipment. Finally, the bill also introduces two new categories of security guards, a security specialist and a security guard who makes a judgmental threat. A more detailed procedure is being discussed for reference to an extraordinary medical examination of persons performing private protection tasks. Therefore, if, during the conduct of inspection controls, a noticeable deviation from the normal behaviour of a person performing private protection tasks and suspected of its further ability to do those tasks, in particular those of which physical power, firearms and other serious means of coercion can be used, such a person will then be referred to an extraordinary medical examination. At the end of the rest of the papers, I would like to set up a commission to assess the legality of the exercise of power. We believe that this is very important for powers to be applied legally and meaningfully. For those minor powers such as the identification, issuing of warnings and orders, the review of persons, etc., will be a competent commission in the field of each police administration, and when it comes to the application of those powers which may lead to serious violations of other persons, a commission shall be established at the headquarters of the ministry and it shall examine all such use of powers such as the use of physical force, then a guard dog or firearms, however, we shall have approximately 200 % of the average application of powers which, whose legality is being questioned, of which only a few are found to be illegal and according to such persons, are being initiated. Finally, I would like to make several of the most important differences between the final bill and the proposal for a law in the first reading, namely the adoption of provisions of the Legislative Committee relating to technical, nomotechnical regulation and certain terminology intervention, so that the harmonisation of material and infringement provisions in accordance with the specific rules on education, then the provisions, the objections of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in the part of compliance with the Security Checks Act, the conditions for carrying out arms, the protection of specialists, and the implementation of extraordinary health checks. The second reading also accepted certain provisions of the ministries which, therefore, made observations to the Final Proposal for the Law, accepted certain clarifications and parliamentary representative Mr Strick and related to the clarification of occasional and temporary transactions and the concepts of this law, as well as the parliamentary representative Peter Škorić, which points to the application of security tasks in protected facilities of special importance, for example at airports. Mrs. President-in-Office. Sonja Cikotic requested data on the average age of persons employed in security jobs in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the number of yearly supervisions of security companies, was answered by a letter from the MUP dated 30 May 2019. Certain objections from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in the part that point to the possibility of the rule of foreign security companies in relation to those in the Republic of Croatia and concerning the protection of critical infrastructure facilities against national interest have not been accepted. The comments of the parliamentary representatives of Mr Lipoščak, Maras and Vlaovic relating to the social status of persons have not been accepted because this law cannot significantly affect these issues, these are market relations, so it can only be clearly prescribed to carry out activities, conditions, conditions that must be met by persons who perform these tasks and regularly exercise supervision, of course not only the supervision of authorised inspectors of the MUP, who is regular and thorough and, for example, in 2017. A total of 4570 supervisions of companies and crafts of private protection were carried out, with over 2200 supervisions of monetary institutions, so banks, savings banks and others, bookshops, etc. In 2018 3323 supervision of private protection activities, so companies and crafts and 2080 supervisions of monetary institutions were carried out, and in the first 6 months of last year all data will be summed up, around 2000 supervisions of monetary institutions were carried out by the end of the month. So, of course, other inspections such as, I don't know, labour inspections, work protection, sanitary and many others need to be carried out. No objection has been accepted at the level of the professional preparation of Mr Curaj's parliamentary representative, therefore concerning the professional training prescribed for the guardians, nor is Mr Djujic's remarks regarding the role of private protection in the migrant crisis and ultimately, the observation of Mr Stojic's parliamentary representative in connection with the status of the Assembly's watch, we believe that this should be resolved by special law. Finally, this law provides for the adoption of 14 sublegislative acts or regulations which will further regulate the activity of private protection. Your Honors, ma'am. MPs, gentlemen, thank you for our attention and if there are any questions I will try to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182758	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of the final draft law. We have replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182759	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I do not agree with your claim that this law cannot contribute to the status or material status of security personnel. Namely, the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only of your ministry, but of the other ministries of the responsible, should be in this direction to finally sign a collective contract, a national collective contract in the security service, after which you, here I will propose an amendment, so think carefully about it, in Art. 12. where the authorisation is granted to carry out private protection activities where one of the conditions is, see point 8. be to respect collective agreements signed in the future, so only those, those, those legal and natural persons that respect collective contracts in respect of the payment of salaries and other material rights for security guards so that they can obtain from the ministry an authorisation for the activity, thus increasing the material receipts of security guards.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182760	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182761	Thank you, dear Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State, for mentioning yourself about some of the first-reading proposals I had, and I didn't just realize now in your presentation that were one-year or two-year high school, I didn't get that very clearly. What I still want to insist on, and we're going to try the amendment is actually what we want with this reduction of conditions. I understand that the possibility of employment needs to be expanded, but we have in Article 20(2) that protection letters can also be entrusted to a guard if they meet the requirements. So these conditions are not disputed, there is a controversial labour price. The guard has a lower salary. So this is what we're affecting the basic price of work and we're going to hire someone on the job of a security guard who has a high school, which I've been asked about and who's going to pass the difference of exams and they're going to be able to have everything as a security guard, but he's going to call himself a security guard, and he's going to do the job as a security guard, and he's going to get paid as a guard. So that's where we should find it to be adequately paid if he's doing business, not to have one job, and he's doing another job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182762	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182763	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Secretary of State, you spoke between technical protection and the protection of private persons in the opening statement. It seems to us that when it comes to protecting private persons that these are mutual arrangements that can really make everything more flexible, but this is about personal protection when it comes to and when it comes to private persons, it is always the problem of him dealing with the other person, or to the third person. So it would be good, it's already in the second reading, we'll see in that sense that we might propose an amendment or explain it. Personal protection is a difference because an individual decided to protect him because he thinks he's from an official person, but always this relationship that the person who personally protects someone will react to someone else's bad relationship, so it's about not going back to some kind of movie that we have a chance to see, it wouldn't be good for us to have this happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182764	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182765	Thank you very much. The law on private protection brings security, quality of protection, security of people working in protection and their qualifications, however, the fact is that our citizens feel insecure about the lack of police work. So here's a question, I'm going to use this moment, and I'm going to say it in an individual debate, and I can apply on behalf of the club, but three months ago, I reported the insecurity of our parents for their children driving on buses that burn every month at least once a month. Three months ago, I sent that inspection, and the inspection sent it to the MUP to send a report, and no one is doing anything for the safety of our children in the transport. Parents are literally here in the Cetina region and in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia their children are transported on buses 30 years old, as if you put them in an atomic bomb. Which is why you don't want to talk about this problem because it's obviously just corruption to the pain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182766	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Katic. This is an extremely important law, it's a very important law as much as it may be viewed as not quite as important, and you pointed out the differences between the first and second readings in this presentation, between this law and the current law, and that's exactly why it's important because you know the differences between the first and second readings? The differences are that the security situation in Croatia is even worse than it was when we had our first reading. So in my first reading, I was talking about the migrant crisis and the situation experienced by Croatian citizens on the migrant route, meanwhile, this massacre took place in Split, ex-police workers' extortion, so the security situation is never worse and more and more citizens will unfortunately have to access personal protection and therefore this law should be extended further because the state and your ministry are obviously unable to guarantee the personal security of citizens and will have to take matters into their own hands, they will have to approach personal protection and therefore this has to be extended further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182768	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Snow White Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182769	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the problem you talk about a lot, but it actually seems very little or doesn't seem to be anything. 7% of the population is doing 70% of the crimes in Međimurje, there is a problem and a major problem. I'd ask you how to solve this problem, and I'll read you a specific case. So last Monday, a 12 or 13-year-old boy walked into the store, approached the counter, and asked me for 50 kuna, and when I refused, he said I'd give him 20 when I didn't give him 20, he started yelling that he'd come with a gun, and here he is in 20 minutes. He pointed a gun over the glass and said he was gonna shoot me. It's a daily routine almost in Međimurje and I think it's urgent to approach such a problem and provide people with better protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182770	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182771	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Curray said as far as professional training is concerned, so I wouldn't repeat myself here, but the most sensitive part here is that I want to distract and that I find it inadmissible. So be careful, you've put a security guard in charge of a security threat assessment. So does that mean that we're going to give the security companies involved in self-declarating certain environments, certain actions, procedures, complex procedures, etc.? It's an extremely critical moment that will lead us to a situation, or the possibility that they'll banish security conditions in order to get the job done, so I'm distracting them. This is extremely important to react and limit the competences of the security judgment cannot be on an individual security company.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182772	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? You want an answer, go ahead, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182773	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. At present and under this applicable Private Protection Act and under the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions of a particular company or crafts carry out a risk assessment, therefore provide an assessment of the threat and the protection plan. For example, for banks and other monetary institutions, but this plan, that assessment of the threat comes to the verification of the MIP where experts are reviewing that someone would not write or go to the bank's favorites to pay less, etc., so that verification of that threat assessment must pass in order to be approved and, in some cases, to approve perhaps less protection measures than prescribed. For example, if the office is located next to a police station or someone else in a facility that is already protected specifically, by a shopping mall and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182774	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182775	Good morning, everyone. In 2019, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, addressed the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Private Protection. The initiative for the adoption of a new law was launched in the MUP in particular to improve the application of physical and technical protection in practice. The need for change has been established through the change, the exercise of supervision of the applicable Private Protection Act, carried out by the Ministry's inspection bodies, and through observations by the law-holders or employers, users and trade unions, all together with the aim of better regulation and improvement of the private protection sector in the context of recent security circumstances. Private protection is part of the security economic branch and deals with the problem of protecting citizens and property, thus providing support and complementing the fundamental protection of the state. It is also applicable in cases where the user, despite the security of public protection, wants to increase its own protection above that provided by the State. I would remind you that the security activity in the area of the Republic of Croatia is experiencing its expansion through the development of legislation covering the area of security in the mid-1990s. The first regulation that regulated the matter in the Republic of Croatia is the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property of '96. Years later and later, he had his work done, which lays the foundations of his activities as a security officer. With the development of private ownership, security is growing into a serious economic branch, both in the field of physical protection and the development of technology in the field of technical protection. The number of security companies is growing, and the demand for personnel from the security profession is increasing. The growing activities in the field of security are also updated and the regulations are also adopted today by the current Private Protection Act 6803, which has been amended twice, and primarily by provisions that comply with EU directives, but also by provisions which have been regulated by the social rights of the security guard in particular by the provisions on the length of their working time. The private protection law and the application bonds cover 253 companies for physical and technical protection, 111 crafts of technical protection and 147 internal guards from a total of 16.447 active persons authorised to carry out private protection activities. The training, carried out by private security services, is carried out by 49 institutions that have received special powers and credentials from the MUP. I note that in the last 10 years private protection has been imposed more and more as a significant security branch and the need for protection of persons and property not only within the scope of private ownership but also as part of the general, social, economic and other activities that take place in the public sector and in the overall social environment. It should also be pointed out that the National Security Strategy provides for the inclusion of legal entities from the private security sector into the home security system, which is an additional reason to modernise private protection and to raise the quality of the level of performance of security services as well as the fact that the share of private protection is increasing in providing security at important facilities with increased security risks such as airports, etc., as is prescribed in other EU and world countries and which is becoming a kind of trend. We know that armed security guards are part of the security activities in the US airports in Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Singapore and many others where they operate operationally in cooperation with the police or are responsible for the preventive inspection of luggage and persons when entering the aircraft. In order for private protection to be effective in achieving its tasks, it is also necessary to establish an effective private protection activity in which trained, trained and equipped security guards will act both for preventive operational action in high risk situations, acting primarily as police support and for operational action when the need is indicated. In view of the needs of modern society in relation to the security activities of the final proposal, the law aims to achieve a higher level of quality of introduction and a new category of persons who do so and to extend powers in the application of some new technological solutions, in particular in the use of coercion funds. It is significant to point out, therefore, that a risk assessment methodology is introduced according to accepted and confirmed standards which gives private protection its full meaning in the part of the establishment of appropriate protection measures in relation to the real level of risk in society, which goes all the way towards the protection of end-users. The status of legal persons and craftsmen engaged in the private protection of private persons performing private protection tasks shall also be regulated taking into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU and the conditions of business of legal persons established in the Republic of Croatia or of Croatian citizens and foreign private natural persons, as well as the process of accessing authorisation and authorisation are accelerated. Then, the MIP shall be authorised to carry out additional checks on legal and natural persons managed by a security company or are part of the ownership structure of companies and crafts. It is also shortened time for most natural persons and crafts to be allowed to carry out the procedure under the new law for less than a month, and since it is only and exceptionally prescribed to carry out operational checks for natural persons if there is a suspicion of the initiation of certain illegal actions of persons performing private protection tasks based on data from criminal and criminal records, as well as other information collected or knowledge. Furthermore, the level of qualifications required for guardians is also reduced, which normably seeks to have an effect on socially sensitive groups, the social status of citizens or society as a whole, especially in relation to unemployed persons, since this law provides for the possibility that safeguards that fall under less demanding security activities can be carried out by persons who, in addition to other prescribed conditions, have completed only primary school, so far, I recall that the minimum level of professional preparation has been required. I would like to remind, as colleagues did, and mentioned that according to HZZ data, therefore, in the Republic of Croatia 30365 unemployed persons with completed primary school, the regulation of those conditions opens up the possibility for those persons who have only completed, so the primary school to establish their working relationship and to be able to contribute to themselves and society in full. The establishment of the Committee for the Verification of the Lawfulness of Security Officers in the exercise of power is then prescribed, such a commission will exist in every police administration, and one central at the level of the MUP to deal with cases where serious physical injury occurred when the weapon was used or when death occurred. It also creates assumptions for close cooperation with professional organisations and security-based organisations, which achieves significant and multiple benefits, increases the general safety of society based on better development and economic activity in a secure environment, develops the security market, increases the standard of persons performing security activities, changes the perception of private protection as activities of questionable quality and repositioned from service or communal to basic security activity. It also creates and develops a security culture in society, confirms and develops the role of the MUP as bodies authorised and responsible for the security of all citizens and their property, whether it is private or business status. Taking into account all of the above, the aim of the new Private Protection Act is to establish an effective private protection activity that is trained, trained and equipped for preventive and operational action in the context of high risk and to achieve integration and activities in the Croatian Homeland Security System, to establish a security culture in society and the development of the security market, which will contribute to increasing the standards of persons performing those tasks and ultimately resulting in an increase in the general social security of citizens. And the HDZ Club, therefore, absolutely supports the adoption of this new Private Protection Act and, with certain minor nomotechnical and other improvements, which we have made in our remarks, we support and propose to adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182776	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Skoric. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues, as already said in the replicas, we consider this to be an unusually important law, with a great potential impact and a little scary, it is very sensitive because it calls into question the fundamental prerogative and the definition of state, which is that the state has a monopoly on violence. This monopoly on violence is the original reason in general for the establishment or existence of a state and represents one kind of, let's say, abstract social contract or for giving up the natural state in which the government, as one of the founders of modern state theory, war of all against everyone, can be compared or described as psychics or vengeful actions, as the actions of street gangs, as private militias or armies, as party quasi armies and various other forms of terrorism. In fact, this law speaks about the forms and possibilities of privatising violence, thus privatising coercion, and also physical violence against persons under certain conditions and under certain circumstances which he should prescribe. So it questions or, let's say, relativizes one of the basic purposes and the purpose of the existence of the state. Another reason why in our conditions, in concrete, therefore Croatian conditions, why this is a very important and very sensitive law is the fact that private Croatian security companies in real life are very often associated with crime. Some of the most famous owners of security companies have ended up or are about to go to prison for crime, some have been killed in street crimes, some are suspected of crime, but somehow nothing has ever been proven to them. The notes of their companies are still doing the most security jobs in the Republic of Croatia, including the most with the state. The third reason why this law is so important in the opinion of the GLAS Club is the fact that people who work in security companies are at the mercy of owners. It's often mentioned here, small wages, money in hands under the table, huge fluctuations. So, terribly fast, people who work in security companies change, go, try to find some different jobs and other jobs less, where, let's say less under pressure, are less insecure, where the self-will of the owner is less exposed. If we take into account this fact of a very high fluctuation, so a very high degree of change in people working in security conditions, the question is how do these, these provisions that you state in the law, and they are related to education, how to ensure in these conditions the education of security guards and security guards, if the population doing this job is changing so quickly and how in the conditions that you have prescribed this law where licences are now given much faster, which means in translation of course, with much less control, much less insight into how the company is doing business and much less insight into who these people are and who will do this job. The main problem of this law, according to the GLAS Club, is that there is almost no difference between private security companies and police, and that is a serious problem. If we were some century-old democracy, we could talk about it, but in our conditions where we all know objectively, every day we read in a newspaper to what extent the crime is intertwined with private security companies, there are judicial decisions, coronerial findings, etc., it almost erases the difference between security companies and police is terrifying. So I think we should be afraid of this. Protectors should not use funds or methods used by the police or the MUP, here it is predicted that there will be supervisors and inspectors in the MUP and as we have heard, and a commission that will investigate any mistakes or mistreatment, however, it is a very weak guarantee of control because, as we know, in these conditions, and these conditions do not change, often police are more afraid of security companies than police security companies, and probably for a good reason. And so, in order to be able to function with this kind in our terms, and we are talking about them and we are regulating them, let's say privatisations or outsorbings of violence or monopolies of violence, as it is called in the theory of state and law, is necessary, at the very least, to a special department in the MUP that will only be continuously engaged. In order to help from this activity, and there are examples, of course, in the EU there are many countries where it is an activity that has nothing to do with crime in which it is an activity that is both appropriate and regulated, normised and controlled, however, we are not one of these and therefore, in our conditions we must first deal with our objective situation, what is it and what is it like to eventually come to have a protective activity, as a normal economic activity that is in no way more than dental or any other non-crime related. This without a special department or a special focus of the MUP on this activity, I'm afraid, will not happen and certainly this law does not lead in that direction but rather vice versa because it even reduces control or speeds up the process that we now, a couple of us, make a security company and start dealing with this very important and sensitive business. While we do not have these standards, we believe at the GLAS Club that, say, something like protecting objects of strategic importance or strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia or for Croatian society is something that police should do and that should be very careful that anyone other than the police has access to protection. I'm going to give an example, nobody's thinking, let's say the Prime Minister, the president of the state, the protected ministers in the government, are protecting private security companies. In the same way, neither the facilities of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia or Croatian society such as, as I know, water supply, hazardous waste, airports or key transport institutions at the moment should be protected by the police because they are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, and this activity is still in the bandages. We finally heard from the secretary of state that with this law that's so chippy that I don't say full of holes, so where you can really loosen the control of security companies, it'll be brought another 14 if I've heard the rules that we won't hear or see, which will be de facto regulated in real life by the protection activity. So away from the eyes of the public, away from the eyes of the Parliament will be regulated outsourcing the state monopoly on violence. We find that unacceptable, so we won't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182778	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182779	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will continue as Mrs Pusic did at the beginning of the word, in the rule of law there is a legal monopoly of physical coercion. It's something that belongs to the state, it's something that's an integral part, and I'm going to try to illustrate it in a very simple way. You have a lot of hunters in Croatia, but perhaps the Italian example is even better, there are hundreds of thousands and none of them actually have a situation or the possibility of using this legal monopoly of physical coercion in such a way that their guns can be directed or any law can allow them to be active participants in any organised form except for what is intended, which means hunting. There is a situation here with us that from the expectations that we had about the Final Proposal of the Law on Private Protection and the Proposer's intention to raise the level of quality of the provision of security services and the state of security in the Republic of Croatia, we can actually see that it will all be beautifully written on paper or through these 14 additional regulations or regulations which, of course, parliamentary representatives will not be able to see, and they are actually the real backbone of real action. Generally speaking, the law that is passed and which allegedly recognises private protection as an important basis for overall security in the Republic of Croatia, I think it should be said precisely on the trail of the same remark that we heard from Mrs Pusic and GLAS, which is that this further creates a special contract between companies that have comprehensible owners, comprehensible treatment and simply goes without proper supervision. When I say that, then I have to say in what circumstances we bring this law. We bring it in circumstances that the police department is unable to control either its own officers, police, or members of the police system, in elite units, let alone, the security system in which it is located at all. In order to know the figures, as it is written here 17,000, and that's what we know on paper, and as many as are on black, we can't determine that yet, but when an entrepreneur who runs such a company earns a profit on a thousand employees per employee from 18 to 20,000 kuna, I repeat the profits, then you know what kind of investment business it is and it always goes to the expense of the employees themselves where the fact is used, which is that the private employer can do with them whatever it is he wants. Once the provisions were slightly different, critical infrastructure, buildings of state interest were guarded by a state-owned company, a state-owned security company. It can no longer deal with any of the security companies for the simple reason that they go with dumping prices just to win a certain position, to get the situation that they can control a certain building and thus actually create their own private interest, and of course in their competitions, the AKD or the Agency for Commercial Activity, which is based on Article 6 earlier, was just about to be at least one guarantee, which is that the state company and the people in it are being verified. I have no confidence in the situation that this commission especially about the use of coercion funds will be able in police stations, administrations or at the state level, otherwise at the state level it's prescribed when serious situations occur, and that means when someone kills someone, so that these previous actions will be solved locally, I don't believe that this help or power will discipline the situation that we often have. I also want to take advantage of the situation here to say that the issue of carrying out a security check for the responsible persons, here I see that the MUP also understands that the synergy of the owner is one of the basic problems, but it is also stated that operational changes for the natural person will not be a direct condition for obtaining the license and for the reason that the time of the license itself is shortened, and I think it only speaks of what is the right intensity of this law. The issue of commission regulation, I repeat, for the legality of conduct, when a police officer applies coercion means the use of handcuffs, a key on the elbow or any other form of weaponry, shooting, etc., then that use of coercion means the way and police administrations, the highest level, means that he can verify that his conduct is in accordance with the law and must sign paper that such a thing happened. This commission absolutely does not know what composition it will be, nor can we be sure that it will be effective and quality in this control. I must say that at this point, be careful, through that one sentence that says, in the fourth sentence. 43, that persons performing physical protection tasks are obliged to concentrate when performing these tasks. It's phenomenal to me when Parliament and this House of the High Regulations are bound by the law that they must be concentrated. I don't know what that means. Okay, they can't be influenced by alcohol and other opiates, there's probably some other stuff missing and they're obliged to respect the dignity of parties, employees and other people. I have to be honest, that in the situation that we have today, which is that the security guard has the right to verify the identity of the person, give warning, orders, temporarily restrict freedom of movement. It has the right to review persons, objects and means of transport, ensure the place of events and the use of means of coercion. I forgot to say a moment ago, 21 thousand cca is authorised police officers in Croatia, and 17 thousand is an official figure that is here in the law prominent people who can do these things just like the police. So we're about to get to the same number. What I'm particularly interested in and what I don't understand is how we're not really aware that we don't see a tree from the woods. All this I have just read is happening here in the Croatian Parliament and probably the last time in the previous debate you had this situation where I thought you should regulate, it was Mr. Vice President Brkic who was there and he promised that the presidency would discuss it, and that was the issue of the Assembly Guard. The promoter here says it is an internal act of the Parliament, although the Constitution says that only by law can it be changed, applied to the variant of this, the use of the means of coercion, and that this law cannot resolve the issue of our Assembly Guard. Since this is the High State House that requires state protection, here, you see, even in this bill the law says that we should have state protection or police or the administration for special security matters or a separate law that will regulate it. I hope that after my repeats, I think this is 10 times to mention that the time in which we have to have a regulated legal situation is all I've stated, doing our people here in the Parliament, everything, and neither private guards, fall under this law nor under this law, and among other things, apply the means of coercion. For those of you who don't know, the moment you limit someone's freedom of movement, the moment you apply force when it needs to be taken out of the hall and the situation where it's considered to be the use of force by police standards, that's the moment I have to be prescribed by law. However, our government does not give up, nor does anyone want to listen to this situation, so I, of course, and for the sake of you parliamentary representatives, have been free to repeat repeatedly that it is necessary to pass a law on the Assembly's watch, to regulate more on who they are, in fact, which is their role, whether they are security guards who can act and apply under this law, among other things, everything that is stated or is the situation in which we will continue to tolerate such a variant. This was especially offered by the letter I sent to the Croatian secretary of the Croatian Parliament, and I asked him to explain to me the approval of the Assembly Guard relating to the video surveillance system. Well, now, nice, colleagues and colleagues, you know, I've actually pointed out the situation being offered by one presentation of employees in Croatia, this Watch and against whom a disciplinary procedure was initiated precisely on the basis of the recordings that take place here in the Assembly. That means that, by the way, you need to know that you are regularly under surveillance. All MPs, MPs, all of them, that you are under regular surveillance by all these machines, videos, etc., which are clearly not only used to protect our safety, but can also be used for other purposes. And those other purposes can be different character. Therefore, be careful when you move to the halls, the spaces of HS for reasons why, if someone can end up in a tight procedure with precise dates, even though there is no legal foothold for it, then you can get into the problem too, and so far I'm surprised by this response and HS, or his secretary, has replied to me to provide him with a copy of the submission, the corresponding annexes, to deliver everything related to what has been reported, and I'm actually using this as an answer. I will now, so for my part, believe that this is my obligation, because again and again no one wants to react to the situation, which is that the Constitution prescribes, the means of coercion can only be prescribed by law and can only be applied by one who is authorised by law. As this happens regularly with us, they go deaf to such things, then there is no other way than to file an orderly criminal application against Mr. Secretary of the Croatian Parliament who apparently approves, meaning, unauthorized shooting of parliamentary representatives and MPs, following what they do in the halls, etc. I don't mind that, but at least put the tag on. This space is under video surveillance by system that you know that at any moment you mean possible in the problem and that it can run a certain procedure. I have to say that this is very worrying, and when I get this answer, then we no longer have anything to address with documentation, letters, obviously I no longer have anything to ask the question that the law regulates the conduct of the Assembly Guard, but I must seek protection from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia which must determine for what purpose and which purpose is actually being kept, who they surrender to, who does these videos. Who brought the authority to record parliamentary representatives at any time, who keeps it, where it is, where the safes remain, how long does such a situation actually exist in which, apart from our public appearances, which are available here, is interested in what is everything else and what are all the premises under control? I am saying this precisely because, I will only remind myself in the first reading I have just proposed, and the promoter of course refused it, here it says that Ranko Ostojić points to the questionable status of the Assembly Guard whose powers are not prescribed by law but by the internal act of the Croatian Parliament. The legislator's view that the status issue of the Assembly Guard cannot be resolved by the Private Protection Act because it is a high-level state-run home that requires state protection, which means the police are administrative exactly for special security matters or a separate law. So come on, if you're not gonna listen to me, listen to the police department people because I guess they know the MUP, too, I guess they know it should be legally prescribed. Because then when the accident happens, then when what has already happened, specifically to the employee, and I'm going to ask you when it happens to one of you, what it looks like, and what we're actually protected by it if we can't trust it to be at least legally prescribed that as legislators, the parliament doesn't regulate us in its own home, how will those who are not private security guards, or police, or have any law-founded authority to apply funds to coercion. And I think that's crucial what you should say here today on behalf of the MPs' club, of course there's no way that this kind of law is supported, it's not a matter of being abstention, etc., but the main intensity should be to regulate a serious and very delicate situation, but if we don't do it here in the assembly what we're wondering is what's going on in both the police and private security companies that unfortunately become the source and hot serious problems, and not the security of the citizens of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182780	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182781	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will now not repeat everything regarding this law and reason. What I want to point out is a few data. So what we're talking about here today, even though I have to say right away at the beginning that this here is stated to refer to 250 companies for physical and technical protection, 111 crafts of technical protection and 147 internal security services, in all 16.447. So that's the data from the materials available. However, what is the market, means all these companies, the trades are being made in Europe, and now it was put here in 2013, so 1.5 million private contractors, about 40,000 private security companies in Europe, provide their services to 1.5 million clients. I say numbers continue to rise, that's 6 and 7 years old, respectively. It says 2016 the value of the private security sector at global level is 200 billion, and this would be the same year 2013 traffic of EUR 35 billion. It's probably a lot, a lot more pity today that it's not some newer data. So obviously we're talking about a certain business. I'll see you later, and that's where the materials themselves say it applies as an economic activity. I'll refer later to why your data might matter. What this law will do will equalise the business conditions of legal persons based in the Republic of Croatia and foreign and legal and legal persons, so we open the market for foreign persons as well as security guards, but also, above all, legal persons to carry out this activity in Croatia. Whether this is good or not, I think that given some other things on the EU market, all that we have signed is expected, and given the price of working in our country, I doubt that someone is really going to work here, except for what might happen to us that the foreign companies that have the headquarters here have both foreign performers and pay from foreign prices which they have been living and seen, they will probably always go to the most economically profitable and the lowest price. He says it's increasing this, and now it's coming, that this law should be of some multiple benefit and general social security, the security market is developing, we're going back to that economic aspect, and the standard of persons performing the security activity is increasing. Now, I've mentioned it both in the replica and in the first part, I don't think it's going to look like that in the end. In fact, in Articles 19 and 20, we have prescribed what are now the basic conditions and we have introduced a new concept that is the guardian. The guard must have at least a primary school and be a health care professional, have the appropriate healthcare skills, so be able to have a professional examination for the keeper. They will likely now and among those rules and arrange exactly what the guard will and what the guard will take. I have already said many times that I believe that certain powers are given to them, which are mentioned in Article 45, may not be in line with these regulations. So he can verify the identity of the person, give warnings and orders, temporarily limit freedom of movement, I don't know how, review of persons, objects and means of transport and secure the place of events. That's what a security guard with a primary school can ask for, or do. The only thing he can't do is use the means of coercion and that makes him the difference between the security guard and the other qualifications of the resident and the guard himself. So, the temporary limit,... The movement, I don't know what part of it he's saying if a person doesn't act under a given order then a security guard, a security guard, a specialist, will use the law of the intended means of coercion, and the guard will request the actions of a security guard, a security guard, or a police officer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the first question that I'm going to ask here is for people who, by chance, find themselves in a perimeter, in a protected person's space, and get an order like that, when we know that we can or don't have to listen, whether someone is going to use the means of coercion or not. In 86, it clearly states what the distinction is, and it is actually said that the card will be on which the picture is visible and nothing else, and it will be fixed again, it will probably write on that card, I suppose, the guard or something, and that it will be the only distinction that we will have to watch what the card says, so that we know whether we have to or not to listen to someone or, of course, the recommendation is always to be listened to, but whether or not this person will be able or not to apply the means of coercion. Of course, a person who is a guard with a lower qualification probably and a lower demanding expert exam won't have all the knowledge to apply the technical means of coercion without hurting another person by some logic of things is saying that if he wants to, there's no one, there's no difference, and then we actually come up with the biggest difference, what I'm saying when we talk about the standard of being that these people with lower equipment are less and paid, the logic of things, can't be someone who has a high school and a higher level of security exam just as much paid as this guard, now in this case that has a basic school and a lower level of security exam, less exam, less exams, less anything. And we are, it says in art. In the 20th century, a security guard's permit may be issued to a guard who, subject to the conditions prescribed by the articles, so far as he or she has completed attending the differences of teaching hours and training for a security guard, shall pass the difference in security exams. What exactly is there to say? It's your job as a guard, you've got high school, you've got a security exam, and every chance you need to be employed as a security guard, you've got all the terms, but you're not a guard, and you're doing security work, and what's gonna happen? We lower the price of work if someone says I don't have an exam, I don't have a job as a security guard, I can offer you a security guard, but if you have these conditions I'll still give you security jobs, and I'm supposed to do it further, and whoever's doing the security guard needs to be and pay the security guard, and then you should call yourself, and I don't know why this is left as a possibility that someone has all the conditions and can, in fact, rule out that possibility, and it's good that the guard can't do what the security guard does, but then we're going back to that card where the security guard writes to him, which means that he can have all the conditions as well as the security officer, so it means that even if he's using the means that he can's got some kind of power and that's not really got some kind of protection, then we want to be able to take care about the money, so if we can't be able to get it't be able to be able to be able to deal with the money. To be a guard with a primary school, I'd like to try it there and I'll try it on the amendment if we can agree, to put on at least some work experience, at least 3 years old, and if he's already finished elementary school, so he's done 15 to 18, and he didn't go to high school even though he has to go to high school, so he has at least some work experience, yes, that he's done something in life, and not that someone who's got a school base, he's never done anything to become a guard, and then he can do anything other than use force means, it's just not, it's not, so here again, check his identities, temporarily restricting freedom, etc. Next up, Art. The 50th says this, when a crime and offence is committed within the protected zone, it is not disputed or another event has to occur which requires direct observation or clarification of facts, guards, security guards, security specialists are obliged to secure the scene until the police arrive. What does that mean? This means this in the next item that a security guard, a security specialist, can hold on to the person he estimates he can give notices in the explanation of events, and the guard calls someone to protect him, to hold him back again. Now, what does the second event for which it is necessary to directly observe and clarify the facts, who, what? So something's happened, and that can be pretty wide, who's going to estimate it? That guard with the elementary school? Or will the security guard assess any other event, which is another event? It could be a lot of noise, a disturbance of some public peace, but no, no, it could be something banal, and he says look, it's estimated, it works for you now, I'll limit your freedom and leave you here and I'll keep you here. Furthermore, as regards some basics, it is well stated here in Art. 52. what can and can be done in any way and how the use of force goes and refuses and must not be greater, is the standard as much as possible for the official persons, that is, what is mentioned to allow the use of the means of binding, even, and the mention of handcuffs or belts, tightened straps, etc., now we are actually entering the sphere, in the sphere of official persons, so the security guard can tie you up. Well, I'm not exactly the same, so I have to admit that, but that's what it says in art. 54. limit the mobility of the work of a particular person by binding hands, etc., etc. I have to say a little bit that I have skeptics, so what I would say is, so I'm not repeating that there are certain needs for this, there is, that it needs to be coordinated, it needs to, to what extent we're going to do it because what I said, the goal should be, and here, what is stated is a permanent and systematic rise in maintaining the level of quality of performing a security activity. By reducing the conditions for entering the service, I don't see that quality rising. The simple logic of things says, if it doesn't need work experience, it doesn't need high school, you pass an exam that's lower than the security level, I don't see that raising quality. All I see here is the impact on the labour market where, of course, labour prices are growing, people are leaving us, no one is going to do it anymore, what do we do now? They don't raise prices so it becomes more interesting than going down the criteria that we can still work with lower wages and then we have a situation where people risk their lives for those heavy minimals and get some overtime and that service is charged, obviously that the market is huge and in billions counts at Europe level 35 billion 2013, today it's maybe 50, we don't have the data, I haven't seen it before. Now there's that skeptic I've got, so we can all say hello to this, some and more levels of surveillance of people by the ministries and a new category of people to which quality is raised, yeah, that security specialist, that's in that direction, but we're going one up, one down. And now of course, the logic of things says that a security specialist will have everything I don't know, much, much less than these guards. That pyramid always goes like that, right, that's the higher level, that's the smaller part, and actually the de facto quantity we're going to get the poorer gear on average than we want, and then that's where we come to the part where we actually raise that quality of protection itself. So, in general, this is what I personally care about, the way it's going to happen, how it will work, of course we have the opportunity when we need to ensure it, that security is mentioned, that security services in the case of homeland security or in the domestic security, we see that it's taken a great deal of weight in America, that Malta doesn't people have their own private armies that engage that it's a huge, huge business, I don't want to believe that we're going in this direction, of course security whenever something happens, there's no price and until it happens, everyone thinks what we're going to do, so we always need this balance between privacy and price protection, everything that we do and what we do and what we do, no extreme is good so that general, this is the law that we should come here, which we need to in fact, but I'd like to know for sure that during this afternoon we'll agree on a few things that we can still be able to protect ourselves, and we can't be able to protect ourselves with all that we can't be safe people, but we can't be able to be able to deal with the safety, and we can's, and we can't be safe enough, and we can't we can't we can't we can't we can't be safe, but we can't, but we can't we can't we can't be safe, but we can't, but we can't we can't we can't we can't be safe, but we can't be safe, but we can't we can', but we can', but we can' and we can't be safe and we can't we can't we can't do, and we can't do, and we can't do, and we can't do, so we can't do, but we can't be, and we can', we can't we can't we can't we can't do, and we can', we can', but we can', so we can', we', we', we', so we', we', so we can', we', we', we', we', we', we' Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182782	Thank you. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Katic, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm joining my predecessors on this bill, so there are good things in this law, but I'd keep the same, actually, I'm not going to go into the analysis of what's good, which is in detail not good, but I want a word that is the taste of this law. So, I find it in no way good to lower the criteria for entering the security service, and I see that this is the biggest opposition here, but it's on the trail of this government and this ministry's policy. So this law is just a continuation of the law on police and police powers that we had here a few months ago, so you've also reduced the criteria for entering the police service. So the criteria for the person who can become a police officer have been reduced. So we have one problem in the security situation in the Republic of Croatia that's been expressing for a long time, and that's exactly what the secretary of state said, which I told you in my replica, so the difference between the first and second readings is that the security situation in the country is just worse than what it was. So we have these situations when migrants fall into people's homes on the migrant route, that people are not sure, we've already talked about it many times in this House of Commons, we have violence against women, we don't need to remind ourselves, domestic violence, the beating of women by some prominent people, we have in Split a massacre that happened recently when some citizens take their own protection into their own hands, and then they still get public support, we have extortions that are doing ex-police activities, so the whole general situation is not good in Croatia, and that's the result of the bad policy of your ministry and this government, when your whole system is falling apart, and that's started to lower the criteria of police service, so we have low salaries of police employees, bad conditions in which they do, and instead of solving that problem, you started to lower the criteria of entering police service. Then what did you bring? You've led police officers to resign, leave the service, one part of them who has terms of retirement, retire, and then we get to this law where you also lower the criteria for security workers. Here we have the same number of police officers who have been quality, who have had their years of work experience, who have retired and now with pension work for 4 hours as security guards, so they could stay on the service to give them good salaries and good conditions. On the other hand, because of what I've said, these security situations, people will be forced to take personal protection more and more and more, and this is not at all as irrelevant a law as it may seem to some at first sight because the system doesn't work, everything in your country is falling apart. So, it's amazing to me when the Home Secretary came out in public a few days ago, and he says we've been running 400 and some police officers in my office, whether through layoffs, whether through retirement, we've filed 36 criminal charges for overrule, for crime, because they've been taking bribes, because they're engaged in illicit activities, because they're leaning on, I don't know, criminal groups. Is that something to brag about? Is that the information that says it's good when the police have to push out let's say criminals in their ranks? I don't think it's a good thing, that it's not a good picture, that it's a picture of the Croatian police and that the citizens are losing confidence in it. "Safety and trust" is the motto of Croatian police but it is all just a thread of security and trust there. And it's your fault in this ministry that instead of solving the problem and working on education and working on the quality of police personnel, with bad laws, you just lower the criteria in that service. Well, nothing's wrong. The other thing, I'm saying again, I'm going back to the migrant crisis. We talked about it a lot. The prime minister to me here on my question about migrants wandering around the G Kotar and the situations that are happening in the Croatian coast from which I come, said ha, you know, we have thousands of kilometers of Croatian border and we have 6,000 police officers at the border, if they were not there, the migrants would be more, in response, famous. Well, I mean, we don't know that. I'm interested in what kind of security situation is in the country if a group of 30 or 40 people can walk 100 miles across the country, so we're not talking about people who are hunting along the border, but are going 50 miles across the country to get caught there or a car accident that then finds 10, 15 migrants in the car. What kind of question is that? What is going on, Secretary of State, give answers, is Croatia still a safe country and can we boast about that? We have this situation in Međimurje that's happening. So, the other day, she warned her colleague about breaking into her mother's house yesterday, beating up there, having cases of rape there, having robberies, I'm not going to say it's only because it's a national minority, but I'm going to say there's obviously something wrong. So the safety of citizens in Međimurje is compromised, threatened and not good. So, and that's who's responsible, the police are responsible because even worse now, people have to take security guards into their homes to feel maybe somewhat secure because the police can't guarantee the safety of the citizens of this country. So I'll do it again. The migrant crisis, the extortion of former police officers, suspicions of specialists working in Croatia, therefore, is not a rule but more and more. Amongst the worse situations, violence against women, domestic violence that has now become a everyday phenomenon, these are all things that destroy citizens' confidence in security. Answer, is Croatia a safe country and can citizens sleep peacefully? It was the morning list's report, the other day a journalist bought a Kalashnikov in the black market within two days the same way the massacre was committed in Split, how the police operate, what does it do? What do you do if someone in Croatia for a few hundred euros within 24 hours can come up with a firearm in such a way and then do what they did? Who's responsible for that? And will you change that in a way that you lower the criteria of entering the police service, that people work for 3,000 kuna salaries, that you now lower the criteria for guards, so we'll have guards and guards, that fully needed and uneducated people with questionable stuff and psychophysical abilities can do these jobs. I don't get it. So your system is falling apart, people don't feel safe and things aren't good, and that's what your ministry is responsible for, and you're doing nothing positive about it. We now have a bill of law behind this debate. about fans, we're going to talk about it too much, so that's one law that's bad and in which you're proposing solutions that won't solve the problem because the problem isn't where you're trying to solve it, you're dealing with other things. So if you have money, I don't know, for planes, trucks and other miracles, why don't you educate police officers, so don't improve the terms there, why don't you educate security guards, why don't you raise the criteria and standards that can be in that service, but lower them more? And you drive people, so I don't remember that in 28, 30 years of Croatian state, there was a situation where police officers with college, so I'm a criminal inspector and I know a few of them, quits at the police station and goes to work outside of Croatia, I don't know when it was like that, it wasn't even in the war. That's when our officers were first on the line of defense, defending the state, and today, police officers are among this group of people leaving the country, which is why, because of that, your government's incompetence. And give it that, sober up and start doing something about it, and this law certainly will not contribute to improving the situation in Croatia, but it should have been even more elaborated, because I say, unfortunately more and more of our citizens will be forced to reach out for a personal protection instrument and take security guards to protect homes, homes, etc., but it is not normal, it is not a normal situation and it is not a normal situation in the country. People must have security and must not take justice into their own hands in such a way as to personally calculate with someone who everyone knows who they are and who they are even lean on the police in some environments. And come on, I'm appealing to you from this place, it's not a good situation in the country at all. And start dealing with the system we should manage, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182784	On your show we have three replicas, the first colleague is Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182785	Dear fellow Djujic, you have rightly noticed that no one had thought to say, instead of an army that must have cost a lot more, to concession someone to guard the border. It means specifically to private security. It only speaks of how much trust there is in an institution that under this law could apply all the means of coercion and apparently that all possible means of protection are sought, but it is not business. Therefore, probably given the situations and incidents that occur across our impermeable border, Slovenia will give us back 15,000 migrants who have no idea, by parachute came to Slovenia, then it should answer that very question. How it is possible to talk about an impermeable safe border, and on the other hand, the incidents are countless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182787	Thank you very much, colleague Ostojić. That's right, you were the minister at the time of the biggest migrant crisis, the biggest, then the biggest blow to the Republic of Croatia, bigger than now, I'll dare say that word. You can testify to that, but even then it's said it's done like this, it's done like that. But what's the fact at the time of the biggest blow in 2015 our citizens didn't meet migrants wandering the streets, breaking into houses because they're poor, being loud, being in a difficult situation, so neither do all the darkness know barbarians, criminals, etc. The people of need are doing something because no one is helping them, which nobody on that route does a glass of water and you've arranged it, however, is even a crime to help them. But that key question, how in the middle of the river five migrants can take a taxi and say drive me to the border. How did they get there and walk on foot? So, how can someone walk through a country 100 miles away and not stop him and ask, hello, where are you going?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182788	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182789	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague. I'm glad we've been together in this crusade that we've been trying... education for the past year, unfortunately failed to impose. Even though the last law had something to do with the fact that we had something to do with the Fire Department, there were the same conditions to be corrected, so obviously something can be done and it would actually be there to agree that the goal is to raise quality, not to lower conditions. We are aware that the labour market is so reduced, there are no new ones, but that means that we should move in the other direction, increase interest through income itself, through the very conditions of doing these jobs, or pay itself, and thus raise both the quality and interest of people. Don't go down the criteria and that's what I think might happen here and that's what I don't want to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182790	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182791	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, what we can agree on is that this government is working on criteria, just doing the wrong thing, lowering the criteria, so it lowers the criteria for police service, lowers the criteria for security guards. Now you've reminded me of the community of fire that, the late fire department, I would say because since 1.1 this year, the Croatian Fire Department has no longer been what it was, so we have some state office at this ministry and that's one problem again. So, no educated man will work for a salary of 2.5-3,000 kuna as a security guard, so it's not going to work, and that dictates the market again and the conditions that are there. So there's a series of things and it's not dealt with by this law, unfortunately, and it's just going to deepen the crisis. The same cop who went to college and went to school and educated won't work in police service for 5,500 kuna because he can make it as a waiter in Ireland and that's the problem. So pay is the key and working conditions, and this government is working backwards on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182792	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure to colleague Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182793	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said your colleague, Djujic, that the state of security in the country is bad, I'd say it's catastrophic. Here we have all the communities on the bench as priorities of the EU Council Presidency, and under security policy, we have a lot of such widespread descriptive text, however, of these priorities, especially strengthening the surveillance of the Union's external borders, and if we continue this way within the EU presidency, the situation will be even worse. Of course, as far as the migrant crisis is concerned, we do not need to talk about it because you have now offered these answers in your report and in your replicas and answers. Are these ministry gentlemen's priorities really a dead letter on paper, or are these just nice brochures that you've shared with our parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182794	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182795	Well, I agree with you, colleague Klarin. And when you look at one of the priorities of the Croatian state is entering the Schengen and there we get support from the European Commission and now we need to get support from other member states. And how do we get it if we have this situation with the walking migrants? Then we have the police who every week is a shot-out migrant one. I mean, what's going on? Someone's got their foot in the pinch, no, well, I'm not getting into it at all, but that's the fact that we've got excesses and we've got problems and we've never had a worse security situation. Not to say again, I've now listed these five, six examples, and there's more corruption. We're only talking about security here right now. Croatia has fallen again three places after the perception of corruption in the world. Here we have every day, though it's not new news anymore, I said, so it's not news I don't know that some minister has an invalid property card or that he can't explain the origin of his property. It would be news that he has a neat property card and that he has property that can be confirmed when it comes to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182796	Thank you. Before continuing the individual debate on behalf of the promoter Mr. Zarko Katić, intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Djujic. I don't use this opportunity often, but I think your debate requires that I declare here at the pay phone that the security situation in the Republic of Croatia is not what you show and alert the public. She's always of course burdensome, you should constantly work on it. You've brought forth a series of false things, and I have to show myself about them for a little while. The only thing you would agree to say is that an individual, a citizen, must not take justice into his own hands and express a certain reserve against those who support murder. And also, the highest state and police officials have expressed it, and we call on citizens of course not to take justice into their own hands and not to support those who take justice into their own hands. But when you talk about low wages, bad conditions, that nothing is going on, exactly this, in this configuration in this government, raised the salaries of police officers and those who had the lowest wages that had been lowered, reduced in the government where the MUP kept your party. The conditions of work have been improved, from the arrangement of many stations and police stations and administrations, from the purchase of equipment, uniforms, vehicles etc. for police officers. The situation, the security situation, you listed certain serious or criminal acts such as domestic violence and extortion, etc. When it comes to domestic violence, too, it is clearly condemned. There have been changes to certain laws such as the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Protection against Family Violence. Thus, the government reacted without delay when it comes to normative conditions, normative situations, and also organisationally in the ministries, also with public campaigns with the help and support and civil society associations with which the Government is particularly working closely in this matter. When we talk about the criteria for entering the service or leaving, first of all, the departure of police officers. It is indisputable that in each, in any activity, employees in this case, police officers are leaving. Those who went abroad because they decided to find a better job there simply follow the situation throughout society. Since 6.5 years ago, the Republic of Croatia has decided to seek happiness and work abroad. That's not why we're the happiest, but it's a free market we've consciously defined ourselves for. When it comes to this, but we'd like our police officers not to go outside for these reasons and do everything we can to keep them from leaving. Those who have left for violation of the rule of service, the law, for committing crimes or crimes, and unfortunately, there are in every business. We have 21,000 police officers, a very small part of them behave like this, but those who behave like this must be removed from their ranks and for the largest number of people who consciously, diligently do their very difficult and complex work, we must create better conditions for them and decide, departments from those, from that small number of individuals who do not honor their police service. So the police and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are doing everything possible to ensure that the security situation in the Republic of Croatia is good, and this is confirmed by guests who come to us as tourists in another way that always, with our natural beauty, hospitality points to safety, so we think that safety was, is and will be brand and what will attract foreign guests to the Republic of Croatia. Every citizen has the right to feel insecure and insecure in a certain situation, however, the objective situation of the police and all state bodies should seem so that most people feel secure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182798	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182799	Secretary of State, I don't disturb the public. The public is harassed by scenes from Split, scenes happening on the migrant route, events in Međimurje, extortions made by former police officers with active specialists, cover-up violations by top police department officials. You're forgetting about the Zadar erasure of those cameras, non-logins, etc. It's in your heart of leadership, at the very core of the leadership of the current MUP. And about the situation and wages in the MUP, look, it's already a flash story from Prime Minister Plenkovic, who raised the government, who was lowering salaries. It's about the salaries in the MUP and the conditions in which police officers work today, so I'm not the one who's gonna get it out of my finger, that's what your employees are telling me, the people who work in the police today. That there has never been a worse leadership in the MUP since the Croatian state existed. From this day forward. So that's what your employees think of you, and it doesn't matter what you tell me and I tell you, people see and people are upset. because of the situation in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182800	Thank you. Replica number 2, my colleague Ostojić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182801	I know that you often replace the minister or always, at the 70 sessions of the Committee on Internal Policy and you are his spokesman most often, and also here in the assembly, we never really get a chance to say that in such important laws. And since you have already taken the part to speak for him, I would only mention if the minister had said that Split is no less safe than anywhere in Croatia. Well, when something like that is said it means that we should get used to such a situation throughout Croatia. That it's perfectly normal for someone to take a Kalashnikov bought on the black market, kill three people, and then have a situation where citizens support it. If it's not a sign of an alarm at the police station, after all this, I don't know what's gonna happen. So start dealing with the problem. That's important to me. It's finally time to face a serious problem with the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182802	Thank you. Next replica, would you like to respond? Here, yes, so you can get out of the place, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182803	Any serious crime is caused by natural public anxiety, and after such situations, it is necessary, not only to act quickly, to act quickly, by the police and the judiciary, but also by a clear view that such violence is condemned and that everything will be done not to make it happen anymore. The most difficult attack on human freedom and the real thing, of course, is murder. We have averaged about 30 to 40 murders in the Republic of Croatia in recent years, and each of them justifiably causes public anxiety. The number of such gravest crimes has dropped in the last 30 years more than 20 times, but in today's media state, all the availability of news, at the same time in real time, is the impression that many people are the reverse situation, that today is 20 times more crimes than they used to be. However, police and all other state bodies are doing everything possible to ensure that the overall situation in society is secure, especially the number the most severe crimes are reduced and brought on [[Intruder Hajdash-Doncic: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder Hajdash-Doncic: Thank you Secretary of State. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182804	Last replica, colleague Klarin, to your presentation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you, Mr. Secretary of State, have now blamed the media for the security situation in the country. That's... Yes, you are now for the security situation in the country, this disastrously blamed the media right now. So where is your minister, does the minister know what we MPs are talking about? Does he ever show up except for his current morning here at the High House? I mean, the situation in the country is, uh, security, catastrophic. We chair the EU Council and you are talking to me about the security situation in Split and the tourist season. So do you know where that murder took place in Split? On the waterfront. What will hundreds of thousands of tourists flock to the ferry for our islands, Brac, Hvar, Vis and beyond, and there someone will buy a kalashnikov online and shoot on the Spyrun and on the Split coast. It's a state of affairs, Mr. Secretary of State. And don't blame the media. Look into your ranks. It's a bad situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182806	Thank you. We're moving on. The next individual debate is a debate from counterpart Mira Bulja. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182807	Thank you very much. The law on private security for the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is important and but it is also obviously a dead letter on paper because security in the Republic of Croatia, so the security of citizens in the Republic of Croatia is very low. People feel insecure, both in border areas due to the migrant crisis and for safety reasons, because the ministry, i.e. The summit, the minister who is here, was noticed by colleagues, absolutely not experienced by parliament either as well as by the committee responsible for this simple man has no need to come before parliamentary representatives at these times when huge incidents of security and mistrust happen to people in security to ensure their state of security, such as, of course, the priority of the Croatian government, security, we are a tourist state, of course, every citizen must feel safe, however, the facts are far from security. As far as the migrant crisis is concerned, that's what I've been talking about, here's in the vervain area, that's what I'm talking about. I was talking about an example where a man at 2 a.m., an illegal migrant, took a car from the garage, drove it 10 kilometers, turned the car over, there was a huge damage, it was a young family along the border in Vrgorec and he felt a huge fear. He's been called by the police at 2:00 P.M. to find his car turned upside down. Migrant has been caught, police have done their job and are saying that the police are trying, I mean, that's 6 thousand police officers at the border, 1,000 km is a story for small children that they can secure all the border over all the efforts of these officers and we have a law on the border where the military, the Croatian Army can help the police do their jobs. And the Croatian Army is something that the people most believe in, of course, is the fact that since the Homeland War with all the problems we have, and I don't see any reason why because of the security of property and our citizens, we are in accordance with the law, the existing, valid not being our army at the border to help, means, the police how, under the law. Because we overcome what a Europarliamentary will tell us, because we overcome what someone will tell us, that they will bring us down, no, we are protecting those in Brussels, we have accepted the Marrakek Compact, without debate in this Assembly that has made it possible for us, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Bozinović... There was a debate in the Bundestag about the Marraket compact, and of course we now have a huge security problem in terms of the migrant crisis because we don't use the tools that we should use. They care about them in Brussels for the safety of our citizens in the border area, or what Djujic said, in the Gorski Kotar, we also worry about their safety, Croatian police officers also care about their safety. But you don't have the strength or the courage to say it. If we have a Minister of the Interior, regardless of what we agree on this thesis Croatian Army at the border, I believe we have a legal basis for amending the 2016 Act of Borders, that this tool is legal. If this was brought by the Parliament to assist the Croatian Army to the police. And it is solely called that we will be called by a representative I do not know which parties or parties in the EU parliament, absolutely not, we are guarding their asses, our police. And the safety of our citizens is, you believe me, disastrous. I was, people are afraid, for themselves, of their property, of their children, simply living in enormous fear. But with this note, the police are trying and doing their job no matter what it's paid for, no matter what it's hard for them, what they're missing people, that's a fact. Now, talk about security, you wouldn't say. It should also be noted and colleagues have warned that buying a rifle automatic weapons in Croatia is very simple, it is proven by a journalist who seems to me to be the Morning List, proved that it is very easy to buy weapons in the Republic of Croatia. We see that dealers rule cities, in front of schools, and there's a conflict because these dealers who are obviously I don't believe the police don't know about these dealers, I don't believe. I mean I can't believe they don't know but the whole neighborhood, the whole town's talking about them, if they know they're pushing debts, they're putting pressure on the family in Split, and of course what's worst is that people take justice into their own hands is simply getting guns and people reacting the worst way. It means that in the streets in the middle of Split, on the Split Riviera, what happens is people don't trust in security, they don't trust. I'd say how many people in the Republic of Croatia, I've opened up one topic, I know that security companies have all said that simply this law as far as national security is concerned, these are people who are armed, those are people who do certain judgments, they're guarding certain strategic objects, but we have compromised security on all matters. Imagine what it's like in my Sinja or the Cetina region sending kids to school on a bus that every month one, two burns? And only by the skill of the driver do those children come home alive. People are afraid, they call me parents every day. And naturally, I'm writing letters to the inspection, and the inspection says she did the inspection report. So how does the system work? People are scared. The Ministry means it gets an inspection report from a competent inspection, traffic inspection she sends it to you, that is, I can't get the people to get what's the inspection of the technical accuracy of those vehicles that are worse than in Rwanda. Well, we don't have the safety of our children. I've sent this inquiry again 15 days ago to the minister to say where that inspection report is is still up buses and still people are panicking for their children. It's 20, 30-year-old buses, when you see what that looks like it wasn't in the movies, it's a disaster. But they get paid neatly by the ministry, county, local self-government, parents. Hey, but at a technical checkup in Sinj, Transport Sinj is a special story, privatisation i.e. Downloading car transport Sinj from Prometo Makarska now Transport Sinj it is Mate Juinović masterly made, it is a clean corruption octopus, even usurped half the station and made a technical review. Of course, the Center for Vehicles will be neatly visible that these buses have been washed, they have received public authority from the state. So my people, so literally a day 50 parents call me that the bus broke down, the bus's on fire on the Kliss, the students call me, we even have a group. Well, I won't stand on this, dear secretary, they'll come to you on buses outside the ministry, because who'll be responsible for that dick when the bus and those kids burn down. We see what happened to the home for the elderly and the powerless. Well, we can't keep warning you, I can't write to you every day, you don't care because the minister doesn't, the minister doesn't answer your questions. So people feel insecure. You could've reduced taxis to five years, and this is where the 50-year-old bus rides our old dick. Don't do this, Transport Makarska and other Transport Sinj, don't work on the routes for these guys, but they're just driving on the oldest buses. I once again ask you to show me the inspection report that sent you a traffic inspection that sent me a memo saying you'd been given this report because you're going to do the job as a tribune. What did you do, three months ago? Still buses up there. Here, tell your parents, that's the same safety measure, and here's what you've done about the bus that's up there every day full of students and the only skill of the driver is to stay alive. Burn all the buses until evil happens. Please respond, publicly here to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182808	Thanks, buddy Bull. We have two replicas, a colleague of Klarin and a colleague of Ostojić. First colleague, Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182809	A fellow Bull. What are we talking about here? Well, just before Mr. Secretary of State for Security in the country accused the media. I mean, it's precedent, I've been there three terms, but I haven't heard that one yet. Is that Mr. Secretary of State, is that pressure on the media, that we send a more beautiful picture of our security? What are you saying to me that I'm a little crazy, like this...? I think I just now conclude whether it is a pressure for us to send a more beautiful picture of security during the Presidency of the European Council to Brussels? I mean, that's pressure, but we can't charge the country's security situation with accusing the media of not reporting it or that you're pressuring the media not to write, oh I don't know, about serious criminal acts like they've been countless in the past few months. The media are fighting with a feather, and you're fighting by law and prevention, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182810	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182811	Well, it would be a better replica to Mr. Secretary, but I agree that the media cannot be responsible for the security situation in the Republic of Croatia. No one came down to the waterfront and took a gun from the press and shot and made a script, the media transmitted the real situation. Of course, I often disagree, but the media is the media and we're tripping in democracy to accept that they're doing their job. What would happen without a variety of media? The simple freedom of the media must be. And this charge by the secretary in front of the MUP is questionable. A blow to democracy when it says that security in the Republic of Croatia is guilty, that it's the media. For the state of security. So the blow, directly you were struck directly in front of the MUP on democracy, i.e. on the freedom of writing, i.e. to the media that they're guilty of security. I think we should apologize first of all to the media or the Croatian public because you are to blame for the state of security in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182812	Thank you, Comrade Bull. The next and last replica on your exhibition is colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182813	Dear fellow Bully, it's not a question of whether we want an army at the border or not but rather of the MUP telling you that the police don't need military help, it's an official response that I know and I have to say that the main reason lies in a country that is a Schengen member against which we do absolutely nothing where you migrants come from and we're ready to spend money again and they won't be told anything. I'm talking about Greece. Therefore, let the foreign ministry also do their part of the job, so it would be a turn not to be blackmailed and to be the ones who will be the EU's President and guardians but to be asked to meet the same Schengen criteria as we should have and just to tell you, while we had 3100 border police officers before 2013, we had 150 illegal migrants a year. We've got so many on the day now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182814	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182815	Thank you very much. The fact is that people in border areas feel insecure about themselves, their children, and their property. Surely the police are doing as much as they can with the number of thousands of kilometers of borders, changing routes, entering all sides, mostly in this part where I said, it was now coming down south along the coast, down the narrowest border, and to me it is not as clear as you, which is why the Croatian police, i.e. The MUP does not use the law that we have passed in this House and the Law on Borders to call on the Croatian Army to ensure the protection of our citizens. People are in fear in the border area, for all means the police know, you said there was a smaller number before, but apparently this number of police officers currently at 1,000km our border with Bosnia is insufficient, it is insufficient and we have law and I call you once again, the Croatian army at the borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182816	Thank you, thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Maras Gordan, please welcome colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law, it is normal that, as in previous discussions, we have to touch the situation in which Croatia is, or according to my deep belief, the moment in which we do not have a system that provides primarily the safety of citizens, we have seen it on several occasions, and in these last unfavorable cases of catastrophic and terrible crime in Split, where there is one whole set of events that connects around it and raises the question, I see that there is Mr. Škorić, the president of the Croatian state of security, and the question is why this city is very dominated by these cases and the savages of gangs and dealers and the conflicts and bombs and the elimination, so that at this point, the citizens of Split want from the Croatian state of security, to send them a message that they are safe in their city, unfortunately they are not just culminating the entire Internet of events that occuring and that a certain period and where the system is working that the police have no information about bringinging the perpetrators into murder, and that they should be kept in our citizens. Not to mention this also incredible case is being extorted by an active officer over an entrepreneur where it is seen that it is a playful scheme, an organised story, where information comes from the state system, from the apparatus, from the tax administration, and then the individuals from the police come up here to achieve a particular or former police officer like this gentleman who ended up in both the hospital and the extortion charge obviously, where in some way you don't have to contact the police, the perpetrator and the one who contacted you will know more about the information than you do, and in that case, of course, the citizens are turning to themselves again, and then the police wonder why this entrepreneur took the person who can protect him when he has not already received that kind of protection from the police and went personally to deal with those who wanted to blackmail him. These two cases show me ineffectiveness of the security system in the Republic of Croatia, and there the police minister should react more energetically, show the citizens exactly the opposite, that they have a secure situation in their country, in their cities, at this point I do not have that feeling. Not to mention the tragic death of an actor in Osijek, driving on several occasions without a driver's license, so that's the whole system, and when we remember those activities that we had seven, eight or ten years ago, promotional actions that warn citizens of certain things, it is no longer available and it is obvious that the level of safety in Croatia is unfortunately decreasing from day to day, and that is what we need to talk very openly about here. On the other hand, we're talking about security guards and we're talking about adapting to the law to certain security companies, so where does the criteria by which people can act and do certain things just for one reason. We have when you look at it now, go a little bit by shopping malls, shops, banks, you'll see that a lot of people who went into retirement are doing this job for a very simple reason, on the market are much cheaper than those who aren't retired because their salary doesn't have to be paid full contributions and pension payments because they can work for 4 hours and finally, we went here with the benefits exclusively to large security houses. It means that their high profits are even higher in order to have cheaper costs or entry costs for those who should be involved in security work. So it's totally wrong. Instead of trying to set those standards to a higher level, we adapt to those who btw. We see, by the way, they're also breaking the laws, that's the gentleman who organized the tent in Sava, the owner and close to HDZ, one way to say it is by saying the entrepreneur who is now convicted of non-taxation and awaiting punishment. So that's the kind of population we go down a hairline, and maybe a man, as he would say, is also getting a counter affection from HDZ, given that he was doing his dirty work during 2014 and 2015 when the government of President Zoran Milanovic was due to be torn down. And I wouldn't be surprised if those things were connected, the kind of country we live in. What I want to say here in the end and to point out is that the police must work more to raise awareness of the citizens in certain things but also to strengthen the sense of the security of our citizens. If HDZ resisted 5% as it has so far resisted to crucify the Beljak Cross because we see, all newspapers are screaming, they have engaged half of the HSS, their sleeper there in coalitions around the county and the cities to attack the man in order to, and there is a gentleman who is also from HSS, can deny me that it is not so, no, to remove man, to endanger the coalition that will replace them in Croatia in 6 years' time, it is the only interest, believe me, the care of Plenkovic and these HDZ HSS people who report to the media for a statement by Cresa Beljak, which he also said was deeply wrong, they care all about that statement. It is important for them to create a riot in HSS so that Kresso Beljak does not go to the coalition with the SDP, in order for the coalition to be weaker, it is the only interest, it is the interest of the front page and the citizens must hear it. If 1% of HDZ deals with security and security prevention and awareness of citizens through the media, believe me, we wouldn't have these unkind situations. But that's not their interest, they're more interested in talking about the Beljak for months now and trying to break up the most obvious political opponent in the next parliamentary elections. That's all they care about. If they don't succeed, then at least the SDP will complain about that statement for another six months. Look, people live off that. People have no use for it, they do not feel safe, through this Personal Protection Act they will not increase and strengthen the security situation in the Republic of Croatia, it is the only one who can be in the interest of this trade coalition to try, although I honestly do not know on which to get a new mandate, I guess on the basis of the internal elections in the HDZ, it is now the only straw that Prime Minister Plenkovic can be caught because now if he succeeds in the HDZ, then it will say as if he had solved his right hand in HDZ, that is, right now, to announce to the citizens who will be his platform for the next parliamentary elections but will not talk about the fact that in Croatia the better situation, that we are safer, that Croatian citizens do not emigrate, and the topics clearly do not want to conclude, Mr. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry, I am not responsible that people now feel more secure, what happened to the escalization of these criminal acts and to the people who have no real responsibility to the people who have taken part of the money, and the money, the most of the money, and the money, and the money that they have not taken away from the money of the money, and the money, and the money of the money that they have not taken away from the money. So on that side, you make sure the citizens feel safer, and then there won't be me, I'd say, needs at all for this kind of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182818	Thank you, fellow Maras, thank you. At your exhibition we have 4 replicas, the first colleague Djujic, followed by his colleague Stazic, is here with a colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you mentioned these extortions made by former police officers and some active special police officers, I want to point out here once again that most of our officers are correct and okay people, but this department and the police department is never worse and creates bad conditions which are why this picture is being sent to the public and why the system doesn't work. And it's not what we're saying right now, it's just the pay, it's the terms. So police officers themselves have to buy some equipment because they have nothing to do to keep from talking about the Police Act, which reduced the criteria for entering the service where the unfair criteria of advancement were introduced in the service, calling, that someone who has a lower calling in the police has a lower salary than their subordinates, that's all the things that drive police officers from the service and then the ones the minister is talking about getting rid of 400 in his term, and they're managing whenever and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182820	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, fellow Djujic, but when you have a case like this where you throw a grain of doubt because it's not just a question of the police, how did that policeman get the information, or the one who organized it, that man is a taxpayer and will be charged with a certain crime. I would expect that when such a breach of trust in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the police act explicitly, to send a message at the beginning that it will no longer be possible and that those who have done so are sanctioned in the most difficult way possible. So if we as a state and as citizens give certain information and we have some data that the state collects, so it can't trade with them, it needs to be resolved before and that's what I was talking about here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182822	Thank you. The next replica of fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182823	Comrade Maras, you spoke of a famous tentkeeper who, along with his colleagues, took out gas bottles threatening the citizens of Zagreb, harassing them and who loves his Croatian state so much and his beloved Croatian people to cheat on them on taxes. This is not their only feature, many are so patriots that they do not have enough one country but have two, the one in BiH so that they can escape Croatian laws because they love their Croatian state so much and love their beloved Croatian people so much that they run from the laws of that country. Did you hear that these tentkeepers and solidarity with teachers when they were strikein' for higher wages? Did you hear they stood up for them? It is clear that they acted in the interests of HDZ and their account because HDZ is forever used in services of exactly such people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182824	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182825	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazic, it's amazing that the core business of this man who, along with his colleagues, brought gas bottles to Savska and threatened tens and hundreds of thousands of maybe our citizens, that his core business security, that he runs the security company. Imagine what a paradox that is. Yes, he even insisted on running for minister at one stage while Karamarko was trying to make a government and if he wasn't, he was the shortest minister in history in a few hours who also loves Croatia so much that he misused the obvious money and rights he had as a defender. Just like the one with the Skajo mustaches, we now see how he is a fan of the great Croatia, what he was doing and how he used an asset that wasn't his. So I am filled with suitcases of such patriots who most love their own benefit from Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182826	Thank you. Next replica, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182827	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, you have touched the key issue and that is the work of the pensioners since there are not enough security guards in the Republic of Croatia. Today it is said that there are 13,500 security guards employed by companies, I think the secretary of state delivered that information, these people are working in difficult conditions for minimum wage, and they complain they don't have the means to work. So the key question is that this law would be brought to life in practice, the key question is that levels and wages and other material incomes are increased by this type of employment, and this can be done by collective agreements and other means available to other resolution ministries, not only the MUP. I hope this law lives in practice, however, will not solve this key problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182828	Thank you, buddy. Here you go, colleague Maras, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182829	I have to tell you that I have a feeling that these people are left to themselves and they're not working because they're still doing their job right now, but they're not working because their pensions are unworthy and inadequate for life, and then we're going to send them away for four hours to work as security guards without absolutely adequate equipment and their education, just to satisfy the form that someone has set up somewhere that a certain institution will have a security guard and that he's going to do a job there that ultimately exposes those people to dangers. So that's where you can see how far the entire system's been set up. People who don't have a life because they have no pensions, make us do an increased risk of doing a job that is objectively very difficult to do quality, but unfortunately these people have no choice and the ministry should think much more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182830	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182831	Comrade Maras, you used this Private Protection Act so you opened up a lot of topics but what I want to rephrase to you is that you are again trying to defend from the position of SDP's representative your coalition partner Kreša Beljak about UDBA not killing enough Croats in the world, political indifferences, a single-party totalitarian communist regime from which you obviously cannot escape because this is even worse than what Krešo Beljak said this, the way you tried to justify it here today and defend it, and it is inexorably done by your President, Mr Bernardić. So you agree that by killing the Croats around the world and agreeing with his statement that she did not do it to a sufficient extent but that she should have killed them even more. That's enough talking about you, about your party and about your coalition partners who are, one Cresso Beljak is your chip in HSS, not these people who are being attacked today... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182832	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182833	Thank you very much. Comrade Felak, this structure of yours is as convincing as you are a convincing parliamentary representative, no, to ask people a little wider than your city di live, probably no one even knows you're in Parliament. Here's about so much water, what you just said before that I was just making excuses, and what I didn't say, I was just saying one thing that HDZ is trying to crush a man to that extent to make HSS become his toy. And that's how it is, and everybody knows it, in your county best. When we see Korena and Hrga, everything is clear to us, Hungary, so that he went, where he went from HSS, Bandic and HDZ. Well, come on, people aren't that stupid. So here's one more time I'm saying thesis and moaning and insisting on the subject that Beljak from which Beljak was only being fenced by HDZ, that's the only thing that suits you, and I'm with the party of the relationship. I don't have anything to do with it, but I'm not sure. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] That you don't know anything because I've never been to a party. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And I'm not sure you're not [[Agreement: colleague Maras.]] Were. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182834	Don't do that anymore. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182835	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly was injured in Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras or Comrade Maras directly insulted me as a parliamentary representative, as far as I'm concerned, or did not leave the people, but here he reiterated what I said, that he supports the statement by Cress Beljak and that he supports the murders that were committed by UDBA. That's Mr. Maras, that's our parliamentary representative, and let me remind you, you're in the party now. Because your party is called a party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182836	Well, thank you. So now I'm giving you a warning because the Rules of Procedure is not hurt, you've abused, now you go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182837	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, so a colleague is lying. I don't support that statement, they fenced everyone in Croatian politics from her, but it's interesting that he was distracted by what I said he wasn't answering, but he didn't say he wasn't in the party, which means he was in the party. So you see how, how frustrations from man do wrong things. So she didn't bother you if you weren't at the party. So congratulations on You came out of this... [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182838	Comrade Maras, thank you, so you've also hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. Don't answer that again because I'm gonna take your word for it. So, that's enough. Here you go, Comrade Curaj. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182839	Excuse me, I just have to say I've never been to a party, and Maras is still today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182840	Now stop it. Here's my colleague Shuker, you wanted to say something else about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182841	Yes, Mr. Chairman, if you've noticed, I raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure when you spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182842	What did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182843	I've been raising the Rules of Procedure when you've spoken and I think that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 239, which clearly says when you have to give a warning to a representative, and I believe that when you're running a session, you simply need to protect the integrity of this assembly first and foremost, and you will protect the dignity of this assembly and of all the people who have elected parliamentary representatives if you don't allow each other to be insulted and humiliated in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182844	I can take that into consideration, but I'm trying to have a session with tolerance. Thank you. We're continuing fellow Curaj here, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182845	Thank you, dear Vice President. I will try to get back on the subject of today's debate since as far as possible, we are talking about it, and that is the final proposal of the Private Protection Act. Otherwise, I just didn't want to replicate my colleagues to Maras for the sake of the public, but when the pensioners work part-time, the employer is obliged to pay all contributions to health and pension therefore it is not true that contributions must be paid. But what I've already said in the replica and what I've been trying to through the Police Law for the past year, and also through the Fire Department Act, where we've managed to find a compromise, I hope we can find it here, too. I am sorry that it was not from the first reading that my proposal was not to go into this reduction of qualifications, but this way I will also announce the amendment in order to allow it to be agreed with the applicant and agreed by the amendment or by accepting at least the same one, which is on Article 19 which speaks of the performance of the guardian's duties. Meaning the conditions under the condition of the primary school, subject to the conditions of health and the professional examination to be put on a minimum of at least 3 years of work experience. Obviously, I can't change that since the applicant's intensity was then they would accept my first reading remarks. I can't change that part if not only went to elementary school, but at least let that make it possible for those three years of working experience that for all new people entering the labour market would not at least be possible for him to become a primary school guard at 18 years of age without a single day of work experience. It's at least someone, someone, some work experience something on the labour market that would prepare him for that very responsible job. Because I'm going to point out one more time, so under Article 45, a guard can do an identity check, a warning and orders, a temporary restriction on freedom of movement, a review of persons, objects and means of transport and insurance of venues. Some of these things are questionable how you can do without the means of coercion, I don't think you can except that you can say something that needs to be done but you can't. On the other hand, we have a problem here and if it's a person who's employed as a security guard, and then de facto he could, but we don't know, we can't determine it, and we can't, we'll hardly know whether someone can force us to use funds to force something or not, because under this law it's going to happen to the guard, or the security guard will be able to do anything other than later until he finds out that they're overrunning somewhere, and then most often and too late. The next amendment would go on, too, to article 20 exactly what I was just saying, where, where, in fact, we open up the possibility that someone who is employed at a guard's job for security work, but we didn't allow them to have equal incomes, so we would actually put the guard, by obtaining that permission to do the job of a security guard, acquire all the material rights and powers guaranteed by the security guard. With this sentence, we're actually reducing the ability of security companies to continue to provide their services on the market, and that I have to say not everyone, but I'm not going to say some hard words, but with some of the lowest possible financial obligations towards these people because the Public Procurement Act is such that the lowest price dictates, unfortunately in some things it doesn't show as a good thing, but so we're going to be hard to change it, but then at least legally put that nobody can go below a certain minimum, that we can't have di looking for a security guard now, what's going to happen to us, all of us are going to see, the companies are going to prescribe the terms of the guards, and here's the space to engage the guards with the lower salaries of these people again and the cheaper price, we're going to crash prices, and when we really need to ensure that people have bigger salaries with higher salaries with higher salaries, and there'll be more interest, and there's only 30 thousand, 30 000 and something small and they've got a lot of health and they'll have a lot of health and they'll be able to be able, so they'll be able to do their ability to do the right to do the right, and the right to get the right to do the right to the right to the right to the right to the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right to the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right and the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the And as far as the back part is concerned, he's tied to the ankle. 50. which I also mentioned in the debate, which refers to the assessment when we talk again about, about all these obligations, says when within the protected zone commits a criminal offence and a violation or the appearance of another event for which it is necessary to establish and clarify the facts and it should be determined by the guardian and all others, he will give an assessment that a certain event has taken place that he will assess that some fact needs to be determined and they are obliged to ensure that the place of arrival of the police by seeking the detention of the person who can be found in this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] , which I can give some information, someone accidentally passed, so he saw or didn't or didn't know what to do next, etc. and those who may be responsible for doing something and now we enter, so the person with the primary school, without possibly working experience, without anything, comes and does something, he has passed a lower security exam and he does some evaluations or the regulation can edit it in detail what it might be, or how in the amendment you say that he simply erases this second event is what I say, first commits a crime and a violation, which all the work falls in the sphere of the offence I think we know the contract, and then the person here we have to trust the person with the basic school that she will remember the whole criminal and the material law, that he knows what all the crimes are and what the law is in the subject of the contract and the new character, so the people who are dealing with the judiciary can't have it all in their minds, and we'll be able to tell them what it's important, so if they don't know the key, [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182846	Thank you, we have two replicas for your presentation. He's my first colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182847	Thank you very much. My colleague Curaj, I reported to the replica that, simply, I was encouraged by some political debates, today everyone forgot how many security guards who worked in private companies died at their workplace selflessly protecting the property that was entrusted to them. Unfortunately, we didn't want to hear it today. When we talk about this law, we have to start with that, which means education, not everyone can do everything, they have to have intellectual and physical, a certain minimum so that a certain job can work. I'm sorry that today, in this debate, there's not a single bit of nutrition shown to these people and to this profession that's very dangerous, and it's paid as paid. And it just shows how we're willing to throw in the mud to pick up some cheap political points. And remember the protections that died fairly doing their job and protecting the property that was entrusted to them. Because of these security guards, we have to make a law to ensure better quality and better working conditions... /The speakers speak at the same time./... they hire them to force them to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182848	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182849	A fellow Shuker can absolutely agree with you, unfortunately it always so comes to take advantage of this opportunity to turn to the public a little bit and fill up some statistics and start the water on his mill and talk about some day-to-day political actors and lose focus on what's on the agenda. And we could go there indefinitely with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure is 70%, 80%, how much of the content of someone's speech must apply to the agenda, as far as it can go, it's very difficult to determine, but unfortunately so we do as we do. What I would certainly say, and here I agree that this must be the goal, we have today 250 companies and 111 crafts and 147 internal guards with a total of nearly 16,500 guards that we are talking about here today, we are talking about the whole... it has its own economic and economic dimension and certainly should go with raising the quality and security of citizens and users, but the workers themselves can absolutely agree there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182850	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182851	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Curai. So aside from the low wages, security guards really don't have the right means to work, so there was a case that one security guard was beaten by three thugs, he had nothing to defend himself with. So lowering the employment criteria is one of the same dangers of reducing labour prices and I think there are even two state-owned companies dealing with security, and then perhaps thus reducing the price of their losses covering the state and they can also have lower prices and these are the problems we face and another problem in Croatian bureaucracy. ...the secretary of state is here from the MUP to hear, a tender has been opened for persons who are retired police officers or those who quit, and so the man who broke up and that contract he had related to education because at that time for family reasons could not accept the job. And based on this contest, he couldn't report to the police, although the police need people, and he's still a relatively young man, just for bureaucratic reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182852	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182853	Comrade Sagar, that's what we're already trying to draw attention to through different laws. Of course, we must keep in mind what the ultimate goal is and where we want to be and what we want to achieve with this. I understand here that this is a thankless task. Generally speaking of some security and repression, in general against which we have always advocated as little repression as possible, does not mean ever greater security, however, is always the opposite, the greater repression, nor would it mean greater security, nor would there be a level of security that could be said to be satisfactory to us. So it's always one scale that needs to be targeted over and over again, there's no exact environment, but what we can know and we need to make that framework where we need to meet some minimums. Here we have this law one good part to refer to, but I still agree and I will continue to strive to increase that quality and in the education of the people themselves and of course their wages... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182854	Thank you. That's what ended the individual debates. Now we've got one application from the counseling club. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, final colleague Petar Skoric. Here's your colleague, Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182855	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In view of everything we have heard today about the amendments to this Private Protection Act, I remind you once again that the aim is to establish a more efficient private protection activity that is qualified, equipped and trained for preventive and operational action in high risk situations and to achieve integration and activities in the home security system and thus contribute to the strengthening and security culture in society and to enable the development of the security market and thus practically increase the standard of persons involved in the security work, and ultimately, we will achieve a greater increase in the security of all our citizens. As a HDZ club, we support the adoption of this law, and as I have announced there is still room for certain nomotechnical and petty improvements in the legal text, and in this regard we propose several amendments. Therefore, in particular, the harmonisation of the provision of Article 15(1) and Article 20(1) in order to comply with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. It is therefore proposed to amend the provisions of Article 15(2) in order to comply with the terms set out in the Security Verification Act. Amendments to Article 12 are proposed. ... in order to regulate the pronunciation in order to make it clear that a temporary ban applies only where a legal person or craft within the time limit referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7 does not supply the necessary evidence referred to in paragraph 6 or inform the Ministry that they no longer fulfil any of the conditions laid down in points 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Law has the obligation to delete the private protection activity in the case of trade in accordance with specific rules on trade and cannot be subject to paragraph 1 of that Article or to the obligation to initiate the procedure for the appointment of a new person responsible for the activity of private protection. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. An amendment to Article 25(3) would therefore be proposed and no technically specified in paragraph 3 in order to make it clear that the temporary prohibition of labour applies to a legal person, crafts, to an internal protection service only if they do not comply with the obligations laid down in Article 2 of this Article, the amendment shall be proposed. Article 43(4) 97th wheel. 21. In order to comply with the drug-restriction Act, the word "intoxicate" is proposed to be replaced with the words "drug", so that we have one specific expression in accordance with other regulations. It is also proposed to amend the Article. 46.St. 4th and 5th for their clarity, and is proposed to supplement the provisions on the verification of identity based on photos or videos of the person in the control room, to refer to the obligation to apply the personal data protection rules, in section 5. A clearer regulation of the powers that can be used by the guard and the security guard is proposed and the authority of temporary restriction of freedom and movement and security of the specialist is proposed. Furthermore, we propose nomotechnical editing of art. 48th, i.e. equating expressions related to the temporary restriction of freedom of movement, as well as a clear determination of the guardian's authority to issue an order requiring a person not to leave the scene, as well as actions authorised by the guard to take if the person refuses to comply with such an order. It is also proposed to equate expressions related to the authority of temporary restrictions on freedom of movement, so in Article. Paragraphs 49, 7 and 8, as well as amendments to Articles 11 and 13 of the same article, in order to make it more clear to the authority which, in the given situation, may be applied by the guardian, so to the issuing of the order or security guard or specialist, therefore, and to the common authority to request the conduct of police officers. Also, the unification of expressions in the powers of temporary restrictions on freedom of movement is foreseen in Article. Paragraphs 2 and 6 of the 50s, as well as the more precise regulation of St. 3 which determines that the guardian's authority is to issue an order, not to seek, or to the authority of the temporary restriction of freedom of movement which the guard cannot apply contrary to the will of the person to which the order is issued. Also nomotechnically, an expression would be made from an article. No 52st century 7 Based on Article [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much, so with these amendments that we delivered [[Intruder: Time]] We accept this proposal. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Škorić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182856	Thank you. The next fellow Bulj is on behalf of the representatives of the Independent Lists of Independents, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182857	Thank you very much, here at first I would say that there was a little 5 minutes of time to list only the amendment club by ruling, the biggest club, so the HDZ is, I don't know how many numbers, I counted up to 30, I guess 70 amendments, so we have more amendments than articles, it says what the coordination about the important laws as my colleague Škorić said, about homeland security, that this law comes unprepared, uncoordinated, and that this is a mockery with security, so they have amendments in 5 minutes, the biggest club ruling majority is listed by the distinguished secretaries, and therefore the triba is here to say what he thinks of these amendments, more amendments than articles, I couldn't count, I counted until 30 minutes, but if you miss a colleague Škorić here is time to list all the amendments to this proposal of the Private Protection Act I'll allow you to let you, so much security, so you came to be safe with the security, so you didn't want to read this name of the hotel. I would once again say that the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is compromised, people do not feel secure, this Parliament could not have had much influence, in particular here I have listed outside of this law that it is very important to work on security, people do not feel safe for themselves and their property, mainly in the border areas, I have listed the case from Vrgorec where the man was stolen by the car at 2 o'clock, where the Ministry and the Government of Croatia Plenkovic accepted the Marrakez Agreement and the compact without allowing this home to be discussed here, of course it is not only the fault of Andrej Plenkovic, that we have clashed here that he was the main exicator of that law, but are now the anti-candidate Miro Kovac who did not allow himself, on the proposal of God Petrov as a committee member of the committee of the committee of the relevant vote, members of the law, about this proposal to discuss himself in the Marrake Agreement. So we have a huge number of uncertainty in ours, and most of all now, he said mostly about this because I've been called by citizens now from these areas to continue to have problems with illegal migrants, that they're threatened with property and they feel fear in these areas that are otherwise areas that have been evicted. Therefore, use this law already if we talk about homeland and national security, do not look back at what one Europarliamentary tells you, regardless of what is green or no idea, which tells you that in the Republic of Croatia the police are misrepresented to migrants, illegal migrants, but use the law and the Croatian military at the Croatian border is the Law on Croatian Borders, the border says that Croatian police can call the military, that the Croatian Army is doing its job, but there is no minister here, we simply cannot reach the minister, we see that as long as the EU presidency is simply showing how everything is booming in the Republic of Croatia. The safety of citizens is not good, here we see just that the journalist has proved that the sea of Kalashnikovs is still being bought in a few days, found without problems for a few hundred EUR, I think people feel secure, I think that dealers, mafias, drug lords still manage cities, systems, that protected dishes can't happen that people are simply forced, I don't justify it, nor do weapons, nor use weapons, but it's simply obvious that the worst when people see and feel that we should say what kind of message from the Split Riviera that simply people in their own protection, I have no idea how they have to defend themselves, so if people take their own protection into their own hands, there will be problems, I'd prefer that in this law the safety of people who work in the police or security system. to tell them about their material status, these people are being paid, these people are not feeling well these people can't do their job because simply that system is being paid off. And once again, I would say that people in the Republic of Croatia do not, in particular, feel secure in the border areas, and for that, gentlemen of Parliament, it is your fault and you who did not support them to discuss here the Marrakech compact and the agreement and once again. Tell the Minister that at last [[Intruder Hajdash-Doncic: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] protect the borders. [[Intruder Hajdash-Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182858	Thank you, Comrade Bull. And on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182859	Your Honors, ma'am. MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you all for the suggestions and suggestions that we will consider if proposed in the form of the amendment and decide which ones we will accept. However, I have to say here a few notes on the inaccuracies that have been made so as not to keep track of something that does not stand and is not true. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Pusic said most of the jobs with state institutions are carried out by security companies that have owners with serious problems with the law. I'd like her to do it, to confirm it. This kind of flat-rate doesn't exactly stand by the current law and by the law that's been passed here. Owners or founders, responsible persons shall be checked and checked and safe and, of course, through the records of the MUP and the Ministry of Justice and all available by law-based records. The Republic of Croatia has, this is someone I think and mentioned, there are two companies that we can call, so one is, the founding rights of the Republic of Croatia, and the other is founded by an institution that was founded by the Republic of Croatia, so this is the AKD Protection and that is the FINA GS, so these are two companies that are not privately owned, and the others have to respect the rules of the Republic of Croatia which we are seeking to define even more strongly, have, that security companies have stronger powers, but also stronger and more responsible obligations both towards their employees and customers and to the general public when they carry out such a type of work. - Mrs. Crescent. Pusic also last time and now mentioned some monopoly on violence, no one in the modern state has a monopoly on violence, perhaps some theories, but we agree that we must, that police must be able to protect citizens from the press of those who do not respect the regulations, but must, and use their powers legally and for that there are very clear rules within the police that they must respect. A special department in the Ministry of Security Oversight is mentioned, it exists, there is a private protection inspection at the MUP and there are 50 private security inspectors in all police administrations and in all police administrations. Is that enough? Never, always would have been better if there were more of them, but as I said, they did several thousand surveillance a year and tried to keep this activity under strict control. It's about rules. The truth is, therefore, there are rules, sublegal acts passed under the law and this law is no exception, but I would like to warn all those who do not know that the rules are also adopted, in the public debate process, so they are published on the Ministry's website. The deadline for theirs, for certain observations is 30 days and anyone can make observations to those regulations, they are therefore publicly available, and ultimately, by regulations and procedures, they are brought by the Minister by the authority of this law. And the last remark she said was that certain facilities, critical infrastructures such as airports would be guarded by security companies. I'd just like to remind you that this transition, so that they're being guarded by private-owned security companies, happened at a time when Mrs. Devereaux was. Pusic was a member of the government, however, I will not say that this is wrong, other countries have it, only that supervision of these companies, especially those performing tasks on critical infrastructure facilities should be consistent, firm and effective. Mr. Ostojić mentioned the Commission for Protection, for the assessment of the legality of the use of coercion, which I would remind him that it exists and now in every police administration, however, does not exist at the level of the ministry and this final proposal of the law seeks those most severe violations of these powers that can affect the rights and integrity of citizens, to be assessed at the headquarters of the ministry. So, I repeat, the use of physical strength, the use of a guard dog, the use of means to bind and use firearms, so that, when applied, such powers will be evaluated at the ministry headquarters in one place, so that they will not, from one police department to another, have different approaches. Representative Curaj mentioned the guards and their ability to do security work. I would just remind the guard in the Republic of Croatia that he has 1792 with a license, that's about 10%, 10.8%, while the security guard has 81.5% and can't have a security guard doing security work if he doesn't have a mid-term and if he doesn't pass the difference in exams. Why the difference in exams? So is one of us, who has, for example, who ended up as a first-timer and later wanted to continue, would he be asked to re-secure everything? No, I don't. He's moving on, he's being admitted to what he's passed. So in this case the guard is recognised for what he passed, and that difference of exams, which is, for example, the use of coercion funds, must be particularly claimed because the guard could not do it, and the security guard can. Mr. Bulj would only answer about the bus, because he spoke most of the buses for the transport of children. Mr. Bulj, apparently he's not listening, so the police are checking the condition of the bus for transport, traffic inspection of the Ministry of Transport and police. Therefore, when stopping them in traffic, the visual inspection of the general condition of the vehicle, in particular when transporting children, shall verify whether they meet the assumptions for the transport of children, therefore whether they have head restraints, handholds, seat belts. The driver shall be checked for any alcoholity and compliance with the requirements relating to the driver's working time. We know that there is a special law that requires rest during work and cannot be driven longer than prescribed time. And also, and this happens quite regularly at the invitation of schools and kindergartens when children go on long trips, so on tours primarily either those which are part of the teaching process or some at the end of the school year, prom, etc. Then especially before the police get here and check on a vehicle like that. So the police are doing everything possible to increase the safety of the transport of those youngest and most sensitive. In the end, I'll just say that a few MPs accused me of influencing the media, Agent Clarine, Representative Bulj, I've been suggesting to Agent Clarina that she might not hear well, so here I'm not saying that I said something like that, and it doesn't come to mind, and if someone didn't hear well, then that's his problem. So, I thank you again for your contribution to the debate and we will consider all the amendments and they will be made available by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182860	Thank you. We have six replicas on your exhibit. He's the first colleague of Bull's, after he's a colleague of Maras. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182861	Thank you very much. Secretary, I told you about road traffic that I sent the inspection a request i.e. The premise to check the regularity of Prometo Sinj bus carrying students and which every month at least one burns, literally burns, that it is not the ability of the driver. But I got it, that's three months ago, I got a response from the administration meaning land traffic inspection that they passed you that report because the buses are worse than I don't know in Rwanda, such isn't the Chalice driving in that movie, they're a disaster where our kids drive. Buses per month one minimum burn from Prometo Sinj, and in the Republic of Croatia where students are driving last year, 10 buses burned down. They do not satisfy the minimum, they do not seem to satisfy, but there is obvious corruption because Mate Junović is Pharaoh, he is God, Transport Makarska is God.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182862	Thank you, Comrade Bull. We continue with the replicas, next is colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182863	Thank you very much. Mr Katic, in your answers, most of the things you resented to the MPs is that they didn't hear well, that they said something wrong, but you didn't disprove any of the facts we were saying. It means we have more of these extraordinary crimes than ever. I don't remember the kind of drama that's been in Split for the last 20 years. So here I can remember the last thing that we had was that kind of heavy-arming deal when it was that case with, although it was even unrelated to this story, with Corrado, no, but in the meantime we didn't. So you're on the side, so try to convince us that the situation is better now than it was five years ago, and then we can talk about it. If someone hears it, doesn't hear it, said something by accident or not, the fact is that citizens don't feel safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182864	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182865	The answer to Mr. Maras is better than five years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182866	Comrade Škorić, here you go. After fellow Skoric, a colleague of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182867	Thank you very much. Well, here's the Honorable Secretary of State, you've brought it all out, you've explained everything, I'd more like to answer to colleagues who are dealing with topics that aren't on the agenda today, so the issue of security is certainly a separate point, it's about the Law on Private Protection and not to get the wrong impression. So, I thank you both here and for understanding and for everything because we have, both with professional services and with everyone, looked at how nomotechnically to edit, improve the expression and some perhaps misunderstandings to improve, and in this sense nothing substantial or in particular has changed except to say a clearer statement that is in line with other legal regulations. If in one regulation it is called in one way, it cannot in this law in another and in this sense these improvements will certainly contribute to a better implementation and greater understanding of the legal rules and call here... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182868	Thank you very much for your time. We're moving on to our next colleague, Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182869	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, preparing for this item of the agenda, I came across two interesting statistics, which is that in 2013, security companies in the EU had turnover of EUR 35 billion, and at global level, that traffic was about $200 billion. We already have these data, they are clearly telling us how important this market is in Europe, and obviously in the world, and of course it will be far more important soon for us. So I really don't see a reason why we don't, by this law, increase society's general security, not to develop a security market, not to standardise the jobs these societies are doing, not to increase the security culture. And everything else. [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's what it's all about. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182870	Next is colleague Curai, here you go, and last fellow Shuker, here you go, colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182871	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I am actually more or less concerned with this of yours for having referred in the final statement on the performance of the security guard's affairs is not disputed, nor is it disputed that the conditions that they must, the only thing I have asked is disputed to just ensure that you, therefore, mean art. 20th century 2. that persons who do so are adequately prescribed by law to be paid as security guards, so that they do not come into the situation that the person who has the nominal job of the guard does all the security guard's work has all the conditions and is paid as a guard, only that part that is legally prescribed so as not to take advantage of that opportunity and bring down and lower the level of qualification or level of calling itself, and leave all jobs and lower the salary or not raise it in accordance with the market and what can be done on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182872	Thank you, and it's my last colleague Shucker. Here's my colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, they well mentioned a segment from the discussion of opposition MPs, which is that they called for the provisions of some other laws, and I remember when the Law on the Control of Passengers and Handbags in the airport was passed in this assembly and it was said that it was not a police job, that the police would not do so, that law was proposed by the Ministry of Transport, then it was agreed as a major step in Europeanism, as well as in all airports, and today when you are not in the government but are in opposition then you talk about how something is backwards, that it is something that is not good, it simply tells all about those who, even good legal proposals, cannot accept that they are good, and when they do not know what they will say then they call for laws that are not what they are, but the truth works today at the border crossing of airports are Croatian and Croatian customs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182874	Thank you, that concludes the debate on the final proposal of the Private Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 635, and we'll vote on the same law when the conditions are met. Thank you very much and good-bye, Secretary of State. So again you, I apologize, continue with:
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182875	Good morning to all four MPs who are in the hall this one. We're going to the delivery, we're going to explain the amendment. Therefore, a statement on amendments related to the Final Proposal for the Private Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 635. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Darinko Kosor, representative Damjan Vucelic, representative Stjepan Curaj and the Club of HDZ Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I will ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, respectable Secretary of State at the MUP, Zarko Katic. Here you go. First of all, the 1st amendment is the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182876	1st Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is accepted because it has nootechnically arranged the statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182877	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. The 2nd amendment is also the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182878	2. Amendment The Proposer accepts, it nomotechnically regulates the content in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182879	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 3rd Amendment of Representative Darinko Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182880	The applicant does not accept the amendments. Therefore, all those persons in the amendment other than shareholders whom we know to be a very large number, and they do not have a significant impact on the business of the company, so for all others they are members of the management, head of the branch, founders of companies, complements, commanders, procurators and members of the supervisory boards registered in the court register and for all other persons in the craft register as well as for persons enrolled in the register of companies that were the founder or co-owner of the company for them are therefore carrying out a security check and, therefore, they are all being verified. So it's not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182881	Thank you. Since there is no representative, we will vote on that later. 4. is also the amendment of MP Darinko Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182882	The applicant does not accept this amendment. In particular, Article 15 of the Law applies not only to the conditions of the responsible and other persons who must be met when applying but also to all existing companies and crafts and internal guards who have already obtained such approvals in accordance with the rules of private protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182883	The MP's not here, so we'll vote on that later. The 5th amendment is the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182884	The applicant shall adopt this amendment in accordance with the conclusion of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182885	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 6th Amendment of Representative Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182886	The applicant does not accept the amendments. Namely, all persons who finish primary education in general and before age 18 years ago when this law allows them to carry out the work of guards and security guards to gain a certain working experience. It is also appropriate to provide appropriate training for and conduct security exams and to learn about relatively simple protective activities at the place of the guard and with its limited application of powers, the guards shall, in a short time, familiarise themselves with the tasks at their place of work so that no prior experience is required for the duties of the keeper and it does not have to be a condition of obtaining the authorisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182887	Dear Representative Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182888	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot agree with you that everyone who turns 18 has completed their primary school and has a working experience. I absolutely think it's an exception, not a rule, because most young people, if they haven't already finished high school, probably had it, so they didn't have that possibility, and they don't really understand that they would be on the labour market at 16, 17 years old to have a certain working experience as such. That is why this article was precisely to bridge the possibility of someone becoming a guardian at 18 and 3 months after the final exam and that he had never done anything else in his life, and what you later in Article 50 will make certain judgments and assessments about threats, about all those things and about persons to be kept and to whom certain measures should be applied, etc. Of the 6 measures to be taken by a security guard, one guard must not only not apply it to force. The rest has everything. So I think this is something that would at least be on track as a compromise solution when we're already reducing the conditions that he doesn't have to have at least high school, that some experience has been acquired on the labour market, to ensure that we don't have those guards at 18 years old, but if we do, and if you're saying they've already gained a certain working experience, then there's no problem leaving those 3 years. Then I don't see the problem, either he's gone or he's got it. That's why I didn't mean to withdraw, but I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182889	Are you asking for a vote? Yes, thank you. 7th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182890	The applicant shall accept the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182891	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8th Amendment of Representative Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182892	The applicant does not accept the amendments. In particular, the provisions of Article 20(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council should be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182893	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182894	Thank you. I can't accept the argument. What I can only say is that with this, it was intended to avoid favouring security companies where they can now have people who have all the conditions for a security guard to hire, transfer to the guard's post and trust them with security jobs at the salary of the guards. That's the meaning of the law. But I'm going to withdraw the amendment because the question of whether or not it could be imposed on someone like that, but the goal was to find an opportunity to avoid such a situation. That we now have people who have worked as security guards until yesterday, that they are fired by an amended contract in which they now offer a job as a guard and entrust the place with everything they've done, but they've been reduced to the level of qualification, which is also possible to pay themselves because the whole purpose of this is to avoid knocking down the price of work by destroying qualifications to do certain jobs. And I don't know if you did say it or somewhere it's stated in the law that a large part of the job of security companies and tens of thousands of people who do it, or, what, 16 thousand people who are in the system, are going to waste in these exactly guard places. So it's a bunch of work that they do, those special-planned situations when they protect valuable shipments, etc. And I'm afraid we're just going to go down the labour price and open that width because we don't have enough people on the labour market, and we don't want to give them any higher wages to make it more interesting. Then what did we do? Let's lower the criteria so that the lower salary is more acceptable to someone. Here, that's why this meaning of everything I've been looking for, I haven't been going to change these terms, I've been going to compromise, so I'm staying with the last amendment that I was going to withdraw, but I'm pulling this one because it's questionable whether we can impose such conditions on the economy, but the point has to remain the same. I thank and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182895	Thank you. The 8th Amendment has therefore been withdrawn. 9th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182896	The Proposer accepts it because the proposed amendment corrects the slip when reference is made to point 4c. 2 instead of point 5.c. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182897	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 11th Amendment of the Legislative Committee. I'm sorry, 10. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182898	The Proposer accepts it because it nomotechnically regulates the content of the sentence of Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182899	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182900	The Proposer accepts this amendment because it regulates the expression "St. 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182901	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182902	Amendment 12 shall be adopted by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182903	It becomes an integral part of the law. 13th Representative Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182904	The applicant does not accept this amendment. The full health safety of the use of electric shockers that would be used for citizens of all categories has not yet been fully established. Namely, the effect and electrical impulses, for example, on cardiac patients and other patients, and the use of coercion funds by this device is not permitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182905	Dear Representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182906	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. So like this, I think this rejection of the amendment from the opposition is more damaging to our entire society than you think. In fact, we are trying to save lives with these amendments. At least you keep trying to make it look like the use of an electric shocker, a contact electric shocker, is actually going to cost a life. Namely, we've now been on ingredients with unions employed in security activities, they mean the waist says that electricians like some basic equipment would actually save lives because, namely, security guards with a gun is the target. So when you have any critical situation, if a security guard has a gun, it's already a chance for that security guard to get shot. A criminal who will shoot at him will shoot the most out of fear and neutralize the threat to him. And these security guards, sir, keep most of the new banks that are secured. So no, there's no reason to put yourself in a situation where that security guard could lose his life just so he wouldn't take the money, like, a bank. The second thing is, you are calling for the use of electroshockers to have some fatal consequences, for example, heart patients. I must remind you that the electric shocker is legal and legal, can be bought the most normal in the sale. If it's so legal, I don't see any reason why it can't be given to guards for use at all if it can be bought legally. And one more thing. When you have an electric shocker, I have to point out that there are some police in the world and it's not the contact but the one but the contact that came out of the gun, which has cartridge, there's no reason not to put it in some basic use for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182907	Thank you. So you're asking for a vote? Are you asking for a vote? Okay. 14th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182908	The applicant shall accept the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182909	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182910	The content of the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182911	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182912	The Proposer accepts the content of this amendment as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182913	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 17th Representative of Stephen Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182914	The applicant does not accept the content of the amendment. This formulation is also contained in the applicable regulations governing the private protection activities where no abuse of the assessment of events or the illegal retention of persons in protected areas has been recorded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182915	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182916	Thank you. I must say, I'm a little jealous since you've all accepted all the HDZ amendments and my colleagues Kosor and me and none of them, so now I'm feeling a little bit jealous. But this was an idea just to draw attention to what the guard must assess, which is that when a crime and offence or another event is committed within the protected zone, which requires direct observation and clarification of facts, then they will take certain measures of insurance, detention of a person, etc. Yes, that verdict is quite broad, but I accept your argument and withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182917	So that amendment was withdrawn. 18th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182918	The amendment shall be accepted because it shall nomotechnically edit the content of the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182919	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182920	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182921	It becomes an integral part of the law. 20. Representative Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182922	The applicant does not accept the content of the amendment, and the explanation is as for the previous amendment of the same applicant... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182923	Dear Representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182924	The Honorable Chairman, Secretary of State. Yes, this amendment is related to my previous amendment. And what does this amendment want to accomplish? You refused my last amendment, but with this amendment, we would actually require that the security guard be trained to use an electroshocker. If you had accepted this amendment along with this amendment, the security guard would have used an electroshocker only in the situations necessary. So he wouldn't use that electroshocker to use some kid who steals candy with electricity but only to use it in situations where his life is at stake. So with the proper handling of an electroshocker, I'll also set you up as a contact electric shocker doesn't have that option, but you probably know that an electroshocker who uses the police in the United States who's on a cartridge at no contact distance, that he has a USB inside him and that it can be measured exactly when and how many times he's been fired and treated literally the same as a firearm. I don't see why Croatia would not go in that direction to increase security, to reduce the use of firearms to a minimum. We may not have had that many cases by now, but it doesn't mean we won't have them in the future. We need to look ahead, not keep going back to the past like we often do around here. I would ask a vote for this amendment, even if the first amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182925	Thank you. 21. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182926	The amendment is accepted because it nomotechnically regulates the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182927	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 22 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182928	The applicant accepts the content of the amendments because it nomotechnically regulates the content.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182929	It becomes an integral part of the law. 23rd Representative Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182930	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the provisions of Article 81(2) of the final proposal for a law stipulates that at the Notifying Centre, the notification system management must be carried out by a person operator who has the permission of the MUP to carry out private protection tasks, all categories of persons authorised by the security guard to the protection provider of the threat assessment. Therefore, all of them are able to carry out the activities of the operator and will pass the training with those activities, including the rules of the profession and other conditions laid down by law and regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182931	Dear Representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182932	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would really advise you to go to a central tip system at a security firm to see what it looks like, to get some impression of what it looks like and what knowledge your guards and protections must have. Namely, there is a demand for advanced information knowledge, there you literally have to be a system administrator to be able to work in the Central Information System, so you're working on three to four specialized surveillance programs, you're working on not one but two or three servers, you're working on three or four computers, you have a laptop around 30, 40 TVs and monitors, so there you need to be ready every second and you need to be able to remove the malfunction if it shows up. And you know who's working in central tip systems according to your laws now? That's where the guards, the guards who know how to have a primary school, who never turned on a computer that doesn't know anything, who don't know what a left click on a mouse means, what a right click on a mouse means. So here you have to set some standards, this is a very demanding job. The protected facilities are very high risks, you put people there who are simply not equipped for this job and employers are also a very big problem how to find a capable man, and most importantly pay him because such a man doesn't deserve 4,000 salaries, such a man deserves a minimum of 7,000 kuna wages and thus you will increase some standards. And I'm asking you to reconsider that, not to reject my amendment just because I'm an opposition but to think about this and set that scale a little bit higher, to take a security guard, a technician as some basic minimum level. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182933	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182934	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182935	Thank you. 24th also representing Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182936	The applicant does not accept this amendment. The provision of Article 82(1) of the final proposal for a law stipulates that in the most risky facilities intervention is provided by two safeguards and, in other circumstances, only one intervention can do so. This is increasingly detailed in the reasoning of Article 82 of the Law. The above provision of stimuli is the result of an analysis that points to a large number of so-called so-called so-called “. ” false tips, so the number of interventions is linked to the most risky facilities in which they refer to the committing of a criminal offence. We believe that this formulation will meet the needs of rapid and professional interventions at the tip signal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182937	Dear Representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182938	The Honorable Chairman, Secretary of State. So I'd advise you again to spend one night at the Intervention Center with the security guards and go to a couple of interventions that these intervention guards are doing. In fact, it happens to you most often in the middle of the night in the middle of the night in the dark where an intervention security guard goes with a battery in protected facilities where someone can hit him with every corner of the head, of course there is no electric shocker, that one man in the intervention may get hurt and I'm surprised it doesn't happen more often. Namely, when you catch a criminal in such a part of the theft, and there will be more and more because people are poor, people will turn to stealing and we will have such acts more and more, and we have at the interventions of a security guard who unfortunately will now be decent to lose this lost head eventually. If we have two security guards on these monetary institutions, we're asking them to be two security guards and these kind of interventions. Security companies earn enough to afford two security guard interventions at night to go to the car together and watch each other's backs. This must happen because otherwise, it is only a matter of time before you are responsible for such decisions for losing a person’s life. So you'll be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182939	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. 25. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182940	The Proposer accepts the amendment because it nomotechnically regulates paragraph 1 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182941	It becomes an integral part of the law. 26. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182942	The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182943	It becomes an integral part of the law. That's how we discussed the amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182944	Final proposal of the Private Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 635. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Darinko Kosor, representative Damjan Vucelic, representative of Sjepan Curaj and the Club of HDZ Representatives. The amendment review was submitted by electronic means, and the amendment statement was carried out earlier in the session. Now we're going to vote on amendments that the motionor does not accept, so we're going in a row. The first amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club was accepted, the second amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club was accepted, thirdly, MP Darinko Kosor was not accepted, so we should vote. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Four of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept, so I'm asking you to vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 5 HDZ Representatives Clubs accepted, Amendment No. 6 Representatives of Stjepan Curaj The government does not accept, and we must vote. I find that the amendment has not received the votes necessary. Amendment number 7. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment number eight of Stjepan Curaj's MPs has been withdrawn. Amendment number nine. HDZ representative's club accepted. Number 10 of the same club of representatives accepted. Number 11. The Legislative Committee adopted. Number 12. HDZ representative club accepted. Number 13, MP Damjan Vucelic, the amendment is not accepted by the government, so please vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 14. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment number 15. The HDZ representative club was accepted as well as amendment number 16 of the same club of representatives. Amendment number 17. Representative Stephen Curaj, the government has not accepted, has been withdrawn. Amendment number 18. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment number 19. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment number 20 of MP Damjan Vucelic was not accepted, so we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 21. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment number 22. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. Amendment number 23 of MP Damjan Vucelic was not accepted, so we must vote. The amendment didn't get the votes needed. The 24th Amendment is the same representative, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed and we're going to 25. The HDZ Representatives Club was accepted, as well as 26. The Legislative Committee. This is what we came to an end with the amendments, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Private Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 75 for, 2 abstentions and 35 against a private protection bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182945	By proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturb... For what? What are you two up to now? ... To me? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here, what's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182946	I'm looking for a 10-minute recess for consultation on this bill, namely, I think this is one thing, is it all in the rules of procedure? It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182947	You can't have me finished reading... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182948	I believe that this is a key law that we in the Club of Croatian Sovereigns need to consult further, namely, we think that this law is exclusively meant for one extremely valuable subculture, and this is about cheerleading subculture, it's about fans, it's about putting it on the sidelines, and it's forgotten that fans were mostly those who were without thinking in '91. We went to defend our country, forget that on all fields of sports, it means, above all, on football and often, all the important dates of Croatian history, especially more recent, often forgotten by the authorities, often forgotten by the HS, that only on sports grounds are mentioned by Mother Kata Šojić, who gave 4 sons for her country, that almost and exclusively on sports grounds the hero of the homeland war gentleman, means the hero Blago Zadar, that almost and exclusively on sports grounds today mentions General Slobodan Praljak who sent us all a message and is exclusively in, when talking about fans and cheerleading is spoken in one bad context. I think it's a discriminatory law and that this law does not contribute to and nurture a cheerleading culture because I think it's emotion, ideology, worldview, love and empathy shown by fans, and that's exactly what we have the opportunity to see both these days and on handball courts in Austria, that it's something that needs to be nurtured, not by restrictions, by destroying and not by double standards, if it's allowed 5 grams per kilogram of alcohol in the blood on sports grounds, so be it in HS, and that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182949	Thank you, here you go, buddy Bull, also a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182950	Thank you very much, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes on this Law on the prevention of riots in sports stadiums, I'd say here at the beginning that this, personally, is the order, but for the order of sports stadiums, it can't be exclusively and only 0.5 of alcohol is seen through fans, but rather than looking at the solemn lodges where the streams of alcohol will flow and where our political elites and criminal organisations who have usurped sports and who have made a riot in sport, where they will drink this where they will run on streams of alcohol, expensive alcohol, has given this message to fans and fan groups that the problem will be solved, will solve the problem where the main sponsors are, so the sports events that are precisely the ones who produce alcoholic beverages, has given this solution? What fills the pockets of these tycoons and these political elites that go to sports fields or through HNS at the expense of these fans and small people who watch sports through patriotism, patriotism, local patriotism, and those who use HNS where they pay hotels and expensive women at the expense of these people and these athletes, they don't care, they don't care. The cheerleading groups are patriotic groups, the triba to arrange this system that there are no riots, I agree, but basically the guilty sirs of the ministry are the primary culprits of those in the lodges they provoked our fans, they're the primary culprits, but you don't have the courage to do it, look who's sitting in the lodges, they'd be a little bit of all EU prisons, not Europe. those who robbed the Croatian people [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]] and bring fans to this level. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182951	Okay, slow down, so like this, I'm taking a break according to article. 248 to 13 hours, so I'm giving a break of 20 minutes, and then we're going to continue to make a point and then there's a debate on the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. Thank you. I'll see you at 13. MEETING IN 14.40 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182952	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply when discussing this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional, additional explanation? Yes, Reverend Zarko Katic, Secretary of State at the MUP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Representatives and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as proposing this law, wants to increase the safety of all participants, fans, competitors, officials and therefore proposes amendments to the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions. In particular, the promoter wants to put an end to those individuals who use stadiums, a large mass of people and the possibility of being in this mass, having a certain anonymity to hide their identity and to send hate messages to certain groups, individuals in Croatian society, so those who do not usually deserve to be called fans and their behaviors want to end. The careful monitoring of appearances of illegal behaviours in sports competitions has also seen certain behaviours with traits not currently prescribed as such, leading to public order and peace violations, not only in sports facilities and during sports competitions, but also in the direction of travel towards sports fields, either in villages, either outside them, or on highways, and before, and after the sport competition itself. Similarly, these illegal behaviours occur both outside our country and because of the inability to process the perpetrators, it is the impression that the competent authorities are not taking appropriate measures, and it is damaging to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia abroad. Normal disadvantages are reflected above all in the difficult conduct of police, national sports alliances, clubs, sports competition organizers and courts to prevent a successful fight against violence in sports competitions. Lately, in addition to the negative connotations that public order and peace violations in sports competitions have in the public, such events, hence the international damage to our country's reputation. The extension of incriminating, individual, therefore incriminating behaviours would predominate difficulties in, which arise in the application of the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, on the one hand, those are shortcomings that allow police to more effectively conduct criminal investigations and infringements related to sports competitions, and on the other hand, which restrict courts and judicial authorities in the quality of the conduct of criminal and criminal proceedings to impose the laws of prescribed sanctions and then to enforce them. Which, therefore, are currently detected as or lately, detected as risky? The first is the refusal to submit, subject to an alcoholisation study and the presence of drugs in the body of the measuring device prescribed as an infringement by law until the amendments entered into force in 2011. Given that these amendments to the 2011 Act were amended. the maximum prescribed level of fines and prison sentences for infringements, the intention was to achieve a certain balance in the repressive measures prescribed by this law and by eradicating the refusal to submit an alcoholisation test to the measuring device as an illegal behaviour. During the 2018 and 2019 and 2019 and 2020 competition seasons, up to now, the total alcoholisation of the arrival, as well as sports competitions, has been processed by 182 persons, an actual number of people who come to sports competitions under the influence of alcohol or drugs, of course, but not all of them and public order and peace disruptors, and it would be impossible to take certain measures and unnecessary measures in some cases and against those who do not disturb public order and peace. Over time, and through the application of the provisions of the laws relating to excessive alcohol consumption, it has been observed that part of fans are categorized as relapsers and are risky to use this reduced provision of the law in order to come to competition without sanctioning alcohol, which in part affects the doing of other types of illegal behaviours. In view of this, the introduction or return of this form of illegal behaviour as an offence would help reduce the actions of other difficult forms of anti-legal behaviours resulting from alcoholism such as fighting, the use of pyrotechnics, the destruction of things and property, various forms of racist behaviour and the like. The inclusion of this form of illegal behaviour in the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions would also allow for the release of protective measures against the presence of certain sports competitions for certain persons, which implements a strategy to exclude risk fans who prevent such fans from attending sports competitions without prejudice to non-risk fans. I'd like to refer here to the provisions of the law of violation, sir. 137, which prescribes special police measures to directly prevent the perpetrator of a misdemeanor under the influence of intoxicating agents to continue committing the offence. Equally sanctioning the refusal of the establishment of alcohol and drugs in the blood is also prescribed in Article 282. Road safety laws. The other illegal conduct that we wish to restore to this law is fighting or physical violence with the traits of violations that have been prescribed by this law since the date of its entry into force in 2003. During the course of time, there was an increase in the intensity of this form of illegal behaviour and the amendments and additions of the 2011 law included two criminal acts – participation in the fight or attack on viewers and other persons in Article 31a and the organisation of violence in sports competitions Article 31b. The introduction of two crimes into the law wiped out the illegal conduct of the fight with the characteristics of the offences. During the course of time and for the sentence of prison that these two crimes are prescribed for a period of 3 months,... 3 months to 10 years the intensity of physical conflicts again takes on the nature of the offence and, according to the applicable legislation, this form of illegal behaviour is sanctioned under the Law on infringements against public order and peace, which prescribes extremely low fines and prisons for up to 90 days without being able to impose safeguards on the presence of a sports competition. These safeguards have in practice proved to be extremely relevant in the implementation of the strategy to exclude risk fans from sports competitions, leading to a significant reduction of riots in the stadiums themselves. The fines proposed to prescribe amendments and additions to the law for this form of illegal conduct amount to between 5 thousand and 25 thousand kuna and prison sentences are prescribed for 30 to 60 days, with the possibility of giving protection measures to prohibit attending the sport competition. In the observed period of the competition season 2014, the 15th to the spring part of the competition season 2018-19th so by the spring of last year related to the match of the Croatian Football League and the Croatian Football Cup, a total of 66 fights were recorded, or physical accounts, of which 61 fights were marked by violations and only 5 with criminal traits. These fights were largely marked by the infringements, as they were short-term and of course low-intensity due to rapid police intervention. As a result, they had only physical injuries and minor material damage. Regardless of the resulting consequences of the beating of the cheerleading groups, they regularly cause great public interest and, of course, have an adverse impact on the overall state of security in our society. The third illegal behavior that we are affecting is possession of objects designed to conceal identity. In that time we studied the application of the law from the season 2014-15 to 18-19, only 16 violations of disguise were recorded in sports competitions. The current provisions of the law stipulate that only the masking action is illegal behavior, so the action itself. So in these 16 offences, it was successful to determine the identity of the perpetrator. When implementing measures to ensure sport competitions, police and directors often find different types of objects designed to conceal identity, various masks, etc. Fantomes, podcasts, etc., and often find clothing items that are also designed to mask a different kind of jacket with sewn masks, phantoms, etc. So, methods, ways are very imaginative. According to the applicable provisions of the law, in the event of the finding of objects intended for masking with the purpose of concealing identity to the person who owns such an item, no measures can be taken to prevent later illegal behaviour, even in cases where it is a person already registered as a risk. The subsequent identification of the real perpetrator is difficult by the fact that the identity is hidden. There is always the possibility that the person who entered the masking object into the stands with the purpose of forwarding it to another person to conceal identity, so one person does it for another or does more people together. So it happens that this is how individuals who disguise themselves on their own, who deliver and spread messages and hate speech with successful cooperation with different fans so-called. fans manage to cover up their identity and police are extremely difficult even when there are certain other knowledge with certainty and confirm that it was the person who in the crowd of thousands of fans in this situation was the one who committed disorder or called for violence. By supplementing the law, the provision that illegal behaviour and the possession of an object is intended to conceal identity, therefore, it must be impractical to a significant extent, would affect the reduction of illegal behaviour in which the disguise is used for the purpose of concealing the identity of the use, therefore, would prevent large, more significant use of pyrotechnics, physical accounts, shouting of messages of unacceptable content, etc. It's important to mention here, and I want to tell everyone publicly that it's not about cheerleader props, for example. Joke and club hats, representations and the like. but also specific items whose purpose is to mask or conceal identities. Because of everything I have stated, we consider it necessary, therefore, to supplement the law in a proposed way in order to reduce the possibility of unpunished conduct by using clothes for the purpose of concealing identity. Finally, the illegal conduct of destroying other people's property or damage in sports competitions is currently prescribed as a criminal offence. The provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions until the amendments entered into force in 2011 were prescribed as an infringement. After major riots at the 2010 match between Dinam and Hajduk, when a police officer also suffered severe bodily injury or loss of eye, there was an amendment to the law in a way that the crime, therefore, included in the law the crime of destroying things and property, is an art. 31 c. However, in order to achieve this crime, it requires greater value damage, at least 60,000 kuna per perpetrator. For minor amounts of damages which, after the introduction of this crime, are generally significantly less due to the threat of sanctions imposed by this criminal offence, hence fines or prison sentences of up to 3 years, the perpetrators cannot be prosecuted. In order to prevent and reduce the conduct of illegal behaviours of this species but with minor damage, it is necessary to introduce this type of anti-legislative behaviour, therefore, which does not prescribe greater value damage. It happens that police, for example, single out 15, 20 perpetrators, but the material damage was, say, a few tens of thousands of kuna, and when they split by the perpetrator, they turn out to be 2, 3000 and then criminal charges are dropped. So the expected changes in this area that are intended to be regulated relate to increasing the overall objective but subjective state of security of viewers in sports competitions that are mainly due to the pleasure of the competition and certainly not because of the intention of doing criminal acts, and such individuals make up a very small number of promiscations, I would say. In addition, it is expected that the exclusion from the sports competition of the perpetrator of the illegal behaviour proposed by the law will lead to a reduction in police involvement in the implementation of measures of police jurisdiction which directly leads to a reduction of budget spending which is very high for these purposes. Furthermore, the proposed changes aim to reduce the negative impression in the public and the media related to illegal behaviour in sports competitions which I have already said in international competitions, damages and international reputations of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions will not have an effect on the protection of human rights, so that safeguards, fines and prisons are prescribed by this law since its adoption in 2003. The bill will define a number of different types of illegal behaviours that often appear in relation to sports competitions that have an impact on the security aspect of competition and on the general sense of public security. Similarly, such events disrupt and reduce the great sports successes achieved by Croatian athletes around the world and who fall into the shadows because of such illegal behaviours. The proposed amendments do not provide for the regulation of new criminal provisions, hence any fines, prison sentences or safeguard measures, or an increase in the amount or duration already prescribed, since the applicant considers that the amounts currently prescribed are fines and the duration of the prison sentences and safeguard measures, prescribed to a extent that ensures not only a repressive influence but also ensures a preventive effect on all those intending to violate this regulation. In addition, the aim of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions is to prevent and prevent socially unacceptable behaviour in sport competitions, which means to create in advance conditions that will, to the most extent, prevent the unacceptable behaviour of individuals or organised groups at the expense of other viewers, sports clubs, associations, alliances and other citizens who are not necessarily linked to the very maintenance of a sports competition that is driven by a tramway past the stadium or drinking drinks in a cafe near a stadium or somewhere in the direction of movement of such persons. Here are the respected MPs and MPs, this is as soon as I have put out the amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions that we hold to increase the general state of security in society, to single out those who claim to be fans and in fact not to allow all those who want to enjoy sports competitions with their friends and families, to be able to socialize freely and freely in the fresh air and in competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182954	Thank you. About half of the MPs present, some even before you started speaking, appeared at your presentation, so let's start at the beginning. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182955	Thank you very much. I'll ask you a question. How is it possible that just cheerleading groups where we need to solve the problem of violence, a bully, but why does a fan group at 0.5 alcohol have to pay three times more expensive, say, offense and have a prison sentence than in traffic? Why in the solemn lodges, will you in the solemn vaults control how much expensive wine has been drank and the fish and drugs are down? Is that what we're gonna talk about? How are you going to solve the problem of the fugitives who went and ran these clubs to other countries, which our system allowed to escape because MOST would do so and warned that these fugitives would run away because of which cheerleading groups behave. I don't see any problem in the Maligans of the synthetics, my Maligans, or the Torcidas. In individuals, yes. I'm proud of her, but I'm not proud of the solemn lodge that spends the money and these associations and these people. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... close them so the problem will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182956	Thank you. And I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182957	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Alcohol is certainly in a large number in cases aiding... other offences and criminal acts, but as I said in the exhibition not all fans or participants in sports competitions are sanctioned, watch if they are also under the influence of alcohol if they do not perform certain other illegal behaviours, so to disrupt public order and peace or such. Here's a fellow who's with me was a recent match against Slovakia in Rijeka for qualifications for the European Championships, saying that Slovak fans drank and were the majority under the influence of alcohol but were extremely calm, they listened to the police's instructions and there were no actions, so they did not re-emerge public order and peace and did not endanger anyone. Against such persons, fans will not be taken repressive measures, only against those who disturb public order and peace and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182958	The next replica is the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182959	Thank you very much. Secretary of State. Every law, every change that will ensure that true fans enjoy, that families can go to games, and that a small group of hooligans really terrorises everyone, everyone who prevents it should be supported. There are many things in the law that are good, but yet he is not entirely solved. It's a good thing it's a first reading and I hope the debate will be good and that by the second reading you'll have an even better proposal. However, I have responded to this replica because in the text that you have stated in your assessment of the situation, it turns out that at this time that we are following, in fact, the number of illegal behaviours of incidents related to sports competitions, although neither I nor the public has the impression. So you have some specific information that you can back up what's written in the material that you delivered to us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182960	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182961	I can't say anything right now, I don't know what numbers you're referring to right now. I have presented data on the number of alcoholic fans, but sometimes there may not be much more processed persons, but there may be a major threat to the great values of life, health, property of greater value and therefore must be taken comprehensive measures to prevent this from happening in sports competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182962	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182963	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. One of the main objections of this law is that here we have heard and seen that we have little to do with prevention, education and dialogue, so I am interested in the public debate whether the MUP contacted the fans' associations and included them in the construction of this Colloquially called Fan Act. I think we need to get the youth families back to the stadiums, but we can simply return it primarily to education and the very return of the culture of going to the sports competition, and certainly no stronger repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182964	Before my colleague Bulj's answer, he raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Which part of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182965	Well, my colleague hurt Rule 238 because it's not just the fans you're pointing out. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182966	I'm giving you a warning. Here you go. Do you want to answer it or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182967	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Police communicate and co-operate with fan groups and are primarily targeted at prevention, not allowing something to happen in sports competitions, and certain preventive activities bring Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[/Intruder Reiner: Well colleagues, let me, it seems that you wanted to ask, and it seems that 17 of you wanted to ask the secretary of state, so listen to what he said, don't yell at each other. Here you go.]] Police are doing prevention both alone and in collaboration with the Central State Sport Office and other competent institutions. The cheerleading groups were not directly involved in the drafting of the law, but some of their remarks were respected and some could not be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182968	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182969	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Of course, we all support all those legal measures that will reduce and as much as possible any illegal behaviour on sports grounds and it is absolutely not disputed and I believe there is consensus in this House. However, given the new legal measures you're proposing I have one question, I'm interested in your logic. With this law, you allow people to bring alcohol to the sports field, to buy it on the sport field up to 6% of alcohol, so they can consume beer, and at the same time you suggest harsh sanctions for any person who finds himself on that sport field, with more than 0.5 grams per kilogram of alcohol, while not committing any other offenses provided for by this legislative proposal. What's the logic?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182970	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182971	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182972	So I have a question, so which genius mind invented in this law is a provision under Article 4(1). ‘try entering and staying’. Explain to me from the legal point of view what's coming. Does that mean I'm going to a football game in Split with my friend at the Croatian national team game so I've had two beers, the police stop me at the harbor, I'm going to smoke more than 0.5, and by the time I get to Split, I'm going to have a 0.4 pass and the police stop me at the docks and I can't get into the stadium? Does that mean you can put me up to smoke an alcoholic in front of my own entrance? Tell me legally what it means to come. Does that mean I'm walking past the stadium? Who's going to determine if I'm coming to the stadium, going to the stadium tax, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182973	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182974	We've often had a respected Mr. Representative situation where cheerleading groups find themselves halfway across the street and physically conflict. So, it was wanted, that time before it was prescribed that that time was worth an hour before the game and an hour after the sports competition. It's now spread during the journey. If you do not commit any other offenses, I doubt the police will stop you from somewhere understanding if you drive from Zagreb to Split or vice versa. And the very number of processing tells you that the police don't stop mass and do blood alcohol testing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182975	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182976	Thank you. So over the past few years, the media has been full of headlines: "The hooligans kicked out a cop's eye and set off cars and engines," then "At the time and after the game, 15 police officers were injured," then "My Barica got their teeth kicked out because our place was called the Dalmatinka," then, "Blood derby", then, "Huligans recorded". Will there finally be more rigorous sanctions? And now that the media is full of such articles, reports, writings, we're discussing what today? Turns out half of the colleagues here support this kind of behavior, not fans, but hooligans. Now, we have to decide whether we want to have security in the stands and sports competitions or chaos and riots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182977	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182978	... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182979	A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182980	They used to be, I'm hitched, I'm half on my way. Give me back my time or... Okay. [[You'll have plenty of time. Go ahead.]] The fans used to be the 12th player on the field, and today they're the ones we see first. They're the first. The masters are the stands, the masters are the stadium, and we can say management. What's going on in the stadium is the result of a pack of fan groups, we have to call them that. For what reason? Because all those wonderful and beautiful fans who go there with their children are the victims of those pack leaders who use their status well in the stadium, so they tailors create all that violence and they say the hate we witnessed. And the greatest hate speech in the stadiums was a swastika that went into obsolescence, which has not been explored even to this day. And if they found the creators of the swastika and if they stood on their tails, they could put their hatred on the tail in Croatian society, even in this Croatian Assembly they know from whom. I don't need to mention them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182981	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182982	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, we are all happy and proud of the success of Croatian representatives, athletes. I hope there will be more of them these days. We are equally ashamed when riots and riots occur, but they are individuals. I would say it should be prevented and every law fellow Striker every law will surely support those on the left to no longer be a mess. But there is one national, he says: “If you want to do something, you find a way. If you don't want to, you'll find an excuse." I think we in Croatia already have a 20-year excuse not to do anything and don't solve any problems because our laws are bad. But the problem is law enforcement. So, we have good laws, let's get out of implementation. The courts have to shut down these few misdemeanors, and that's the solution. I believe the police are doing their job but the courts in Croatia are the biggest problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182983	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182984	Thank you very much. If we're talking about packes here, then let's ask a question and how did they come up? Why didn't the police act so far because this is how, by applying a law like this, we're talking to the whole crowd, everyone who comes to the stadium is fans. Everyone from their point of view. If we're going to introduce maybe a cheerleader's license, and then we're going to drive, like in a ride, the one who's over 0.5, he's in violation. I think we should make an act to encourage a police officer so that they can carry out their activities to the end and the judiciary to follow them. In this way we will re-set some legal standards that eventually the police will implement in full and after that, the judiciary will not process and we will return to the beginning. But the only thing to understand is that if it wasn't for the hooligans who were just wanted in the fans, I'd be looking for them sooner in a club-run policy, destroying clubs, and eventually creating the public exactly the need to act against that kind of behavior, so maybe that excess is just a reaction to politics and destroying clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182985	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182986	Dear Secretary of State, let's not make of cheerleading subculture, the cheerleading population problem, the problem is much bigger in institutions, but I find it funny here I have to hear that here's the man in front of the MUP saying that this law can be applied and not applied. Article 21 states clearly: “No sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages is permitted in the area of the sports facility,” so Col. Bulj said well, if not allowed, not even in the honorary lodges, point, point. Second, Art. 25. says: “The police of an authorised person who declares himself or under the circumstances apparently goes to a sports competition and by his behaviour raises a reasonable suspicion that he is under the influence of alcohol, forbid her to come to the scene of a sports competition or enter a sports facility.” Therefore, there is no free assessment of whether a policeman will be slaughtered there because he is not a member of the cheerleading group but simply a drunkard, let the burden on a member of the fan group not let go. There's no such thing as a possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182987	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state. Oh, no? Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182988	Thank you, Chairman. For example, it bothered me, often using a syntagma "can be punished" or "a possibility of expression" which opens up space for wide application or can be removed from the stadium's field by anyone who can be told to the police or better by the authorities, poses a threat in any sense or political way. Do we have any doubt that fear is a similar form of rule by Zdravko Mamić, when based on his internal knowledge he formed his own blacklists, which later proved to be against the law and anti-constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182989	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182990	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think it's here in these changes that are minimal and I don't know how much they're going to contribute, actually we're talking about something that already exists. We now have in the law that I consider myself to be a violation provision, not a violation provision, but an illegal act, a arrival in an alcoholic state and a stay in an alcoholic state. All that's changing here is that already now if you refuse an alcoholic will be a violation, the rest of it's already been there for the last eight, nine years. And we have at the same time, in the same article where they say they're allowed to pour drinks that are below 6% alcohol. Now I ask here who's crazy? And that's eight, nine years. So you can buy beer at the game, drink one, the other, and you're in a felony or an illegal store.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182991	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182992	Thank you. Well, my fellow MPs are most of what I had to say actually asked as a question, and it seems to me here that there's some conclusion after your answers that the police have some kind of great freedom in making decisions, so how can we know whether or not someone was causing any problems, that they can test any police, that they want to test, and that's because it's an assessment of a police officer on the ground. So if we were to give these powers to the police to treat others, we might actually have to deal with corruption in Croatian society. Unfortunately, there isn't. What is happening, and in society we have certain protests and riots now, we see what is happening in Split, all the result of this general mood in society or the response to the bad situation in the functioning of our institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182993	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ostojic. I'm sorry, sir. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182994	Well, Mr. Representative, it is one of the important amendments to this law that even refusing to submit to alcohol testing is now considered a violation. So far, it has not been considered that if someone refused to determine alcoholisation, the state of alcoholisation, did not suffer the consequences unless it was related to his alcoholism with some other risky and illegal behavior, so he committed some other offense, beat himself or damaged some thing, some other person's thing. So now we're introducing this possibility for the police to carry out the alcohol abuse of those who appear to be under the influence of alcohol.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182995	The next replica is the respected representative of Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182996	I'm surprised that you actually support non-application of the law. You misinformed us, and it's the management of those colleagues who just said it, and that's that you're bound by law enforcement officers. It clearly tells him what he has to do, I don't have time to point out all the points now, but I'm also going to ask you, is the phone going to be a means to be taken away from the games? That's what I'm saying for the reason that here today the report says that it's an officer who interprets it as a means of injury in the arrest of migrants caught on a train near Slavonski Brod. Therefore, I am interested in whether the ski competition "Snow Queen" will also be treated by fans who come masked with a disguised identity because they are cold. Therefore, make a distinction to whom this applies, whether this law is directed against hooligans or this is a law that will treat all sports competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182997	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182998	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the law is directed against the hooligans. The answer is that he also refers to all sports competitions. There may have been more mention of football here because there have been more illegal behaviours in football competitions than in some others. Well, of course, in the ski competitions people can come and come more warmly dressed and that such persons will not be processed. As for the cell phone, no, absolutely not. And the phone won't be taken away at the entrances to the sports resorts. Otherwise, every single one of us who goes to the game would be out of a cell phone. I mean, a little who goes without a cell phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u182999	The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183000	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Katic, I also condemn every form of violence and hooliganism and I think it is necessary to clearly separate the hooligans from the real true fans. But from your opening presentation, fans turn out to be a problem and it turns out to be some kind of fan problem. You were also talking about education and prevention. Now I'm curious why you in the MUP don't have a systematic job for a cheerleader if it's such a problem? We've been talking about this problem for 10 years. So, in the Home Office for the past 10 years, there's been a person in charge of fan issues. However, this has not been worked out at the level of police administrations and you on police administrations do not have a systematised position of police officers who deal with fans unlike, say, crime that has branches and for narcotics, and for economic crime, and for other things. It turns out that the cops who deal with this issue deal with fans and masquerade, and all the other problems. Why don't you have that if your goal is prevention? Maybe all of this wouldn't have happened if it had been done 10 years ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183001	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183002	Your Honor, I don't know how many times I have to repeat that the law does not apply to fans as such, but to hooligans who disturb public order and peace. So those who make riots like the law's name says, it means riots in sports competitions. As for prevention in police administrations, there are people who work in public order and peace lines with fans. In most of them, there is no name written that he deals only with cheerleading groups. But people who work in public order and peace, someone is always in charge primarily of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183003	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183004	Thank you very much. Mr Katić, in your explanation, and I remember here already several debates in the Croatian Parliament, it turns out that this law is one of the more important ones we are discussing and that it is a big problem in fans which I think is actually not so much. I don't remember any major riots for the last few years. The bigger problem is what one of the colleagues in the lodges said, or in those who live in our society on the backs of citizens and who show their status and power from these lodges. So on this side, when you see fans in the City of Zagreb, most of them and negative emotions are rarely directed towards opposing fans, perhaps at which game a year, but at each game they are directed against the management of the club that usurped Dinam and which simply has been sucking for years. And when the state brings a certain word against them, they flee to Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183005	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Maras. [[Intruder Maras: So against these you find a solution.]] Comrade Maras, thank you. [[Intruder Maras: Comrade Katic, so we'll all be happy, not against the fans.]] Don't miss the time, please. You do it all the time. [[(Intruder Maras: Which is basically not a problem. Thank you, too.]] Don't do that. It's not right, but it's up to other colleagues. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Matjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, unlike some of my colleagues, I don't share that empathy with cheerleading groups. In fact, quite the opposite. I just think that formal and informal fan groups are the generator of riots first and foremost in football stadiums. These are groups that have their own strict hierarchy, their value systems, which have their tools, and one of these tools is violence, and winding them is not a cor busines. They're dealing with something that's on the verge of crime or is crime alone. However, I believe that for this very reason because such groups are influential that their behavior has been tolerated for too long, that this evil evil spirit has come out of the bottle, and now with the pendrek it back in the bottle will be very, very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183007	The next replica is the respected representative Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183008	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, like most of my colleagues, it's just a little weird for me. Most small clubs have a hard time living, and they're just living on selling drinks and that's even alcoholic. It's a common practice in such games that are often high-risk because there are no police on them and drink any beer or gemist. So I'm against the fact that a cop sees me drinking two beers, sees me drinking two beers, so they can alcoholate me and follow the sanctions without doing anything wrong. It is also necessary to distinguish the severity of violations such as wearing a scarf on one side or a misdemeanor such as directly causing riots and fighting. I'm for dragon punishment, I'm for dragon punishment in such hooliganism, and there's no debate about it. And I'm a relapser for life bans on stadiums and dragon prison sentences. But again, small clubs are wrong to ban... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183009	Thank you. Okay. Now we've exhausted the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will be shared by respected representatives of Sladolov and Poddolnjak. First respected representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here are the changes to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, and I'm going to be talking about the problem from the fans' perspective, from the perspective of fans who have been going to games for 30 years, which I have about 50, 60 guests and who have no penalty for wrong parking for the past 30 years. So the wrong thing to do here is to insinuate that we are the speakers of some hooligan groups. I will therefore address here on behalf of fans who travel around the world, root for their club, and by which these provisions of the law will be punished because they are not precise. So, I think the law is hypocritical, deeply unfair because I'm the proposing that the number of violence has been reduced on the ground, so it's a more repressive law. What is even more hypocritical in this whole law - making story is that the law is passed because of impressions. So the Croatian public is being passed the law because of the impression. So what's the impression of Croatian politicians, of corruption, of justice, so in this assembly we didn't pass laws regarding these matters? So the impression that some media and interest groups are creating about fans is called moral panic in cheerleading sociology, because you will never see on the cover pages of the magazine that fans together put out a fire in Split, that they were together in Gunja and helped the floods, that every two months they give blood, that fans together built a playground in Vukovar, that they were at the football stage of the North Pole and Maximir at one point leading to the cheerleading of children with Down syndrome. You'll never see it in Croatian media. And then moral panic is created to pass this repressive law. So, I'll make one fact out of it. Otherwise, changes to the Fans' Law always happened when some riots took place. Only this change, therefore, has nothing to do with the riots because the legislator himself admitted that the number of riots at sports sites has decreased. And I'm going to tell you one piece of information that you don't know, which is that three months ago it happened that a bunch of Croatian football games took place and that it was purposely placed on the freeway that three cheerleading groups were both Torcida, Bad Blue Boys and Armada. By then, the police had always acted rationally and said – it is not normal to – so she separated those matches. One game was Friday, the other on Saturday, the third on Sunday. So it was supposed to be a cause, fortunately nothing happened, for the amendments to this law. I'm now asking a question, so it's as if it's in someone's interest to have a mess happen, so there'd be a cause for these amendments to the law. What I'm going to refer to in the law is the provisions I said in the replica. So, alcohol. Will this, will this article apply to all the stands equally? So you respected secretary of state said you wouldn't, that it would only be based on the so-called so-called Secretary of State. The cheerleading stands. So I find that statement discriminatory because you actually automatically declare certain groups of people guilty or hooligan. There is no provision in any European law to punish alcohol of 0.5% so strictly in the law. So the English we often call upon, so often it's a story of how Margaret Thatcher solved the problem of hooliganism in the stadiums. There is therefore a provision “Rang this order” there means a provision in the law means, you can be attached to the stadium, you can be attached to the pub, but in case you start to make a mess, to start making an emergency in the stadium, to yell at the official person, also in the pub itself, so the police are taking you out of the stadium then and you're actually breaking the answer. There's no difference between a pub and a stadium. So what you can do is you can be in the pub, you can be in the stadium, but at that point when you start to make a mess, then there's no mess in this bill, so the law says that everyone who's more than 0.5. It's usually the law that voted HDZ, SDP in 2011. These provisions only apply at the moment to the ban that you cannot refuse to blow alcohol. Therefore, there is no European practice that punishes, severely punishes fans and which can result in new violence. What's also controversial in the law is the possession of items that serve to conceal. So, just an act of possession, so at the moment you left the scarf, so as a cheerleading scarf, it makes sense, so you kicked yourself out of your sleeve any reason for this article. Because a fan who wants to cover up his work can cover up his identity with a joke. There's a lady from HDZ with a scarf, so according to that provision, the law also says she's punishable. So, you simply won't, it would make sense to me that you put a certain illegal act in the law, and in case someone else with that action covered their identity that you punished him for it. Also for alcohol, so if someone did illegal activity in the stadium, which is why he was drunk, that means he should get a stricter sentence. That's the way it is in traffic violations. What isn't? So, if someone commits a traffic violation, if they also blow more than 0.5 proms he will be further punished, but the act of owning an item that can be widely interpreted is not going to solve the problem that you are therefore facing. What is also controversial in this law and which can therefore be widely interpreted and what is actually deeply unfair is that it punishes participation in the fight much more strictly than in other groups of society. Here I personally think, so in case you'd like to, for example. I don't know how Mr. Whitey and Mr. Whitey fought in front of the assembly that they should be just as punished as Heiduk and Dinam fans to fight in front of the stadium. Likewise, it is exactly the same if someone fights in front of the folk club and he is a member of some golden youth of a party that should be equally punished and severely punished, but it cannot happen that a slap in front of the folk club is therefore punishable by the treasure, and a slap in front of the stadium to punish himself so drastically. So we, therefore, have really dealt with this problem and this none of the laws actually, the European law actually does not make a distinction between the two parts of this in Europe as we do here. What is also controversial and can be widely interpreted, which is that songs that encourage violence will be punished. Of course everyone is against violence. Otherwise, in the law's provision, there is a current law to punish any religious, national and regional insults of some sort by their belongings, but therefore this can really be widely interpreted. I'll give you an example, there's a song from Pips Chips & Videoclips "Dinamo I Love" in which one verse really encourages violence. But that song is sung at weddings, on birthdays, and now the question is asked, so if that song is allowed to be sung in all these institutions, how can you be banned from being in the stadium? So there's something called cheerleading folklore, so I'm against any violence, but you have a derby where you certainly won't be able to solve it because that would make 30,000 people a violation, and 30,000 people would end up with a ban on punishment. It's simply in practice inconclusive. So here's what I'm saying is, as far as the punishment is concerned, what I'm saying is I'm putting you in front of the stadium, so if you accidentally fight in front of the stadium, you're being punished from 5 to 25,000 kuna, jail for up to 60 days, and if you accidentally fight in front of the assembly or in front of the national club, you're being punished by 170 to 1,300 kuna. So it's exactly the same thing that's different to different social groups. What it is, it's not the subject of this law, but I want to warn the gentleman of the previous law about it, and that institute of bans on games. How it works in practice and how the taxpayers' money is spent, I can say enough nonsense. So, if the fan gets a game ban, and according to these criminal acts he can get if he gets more than 0.5% and per free appraisal of even the club, he can get a ban without any rightful verdict, so his punishment is that he has to report to the police station on the day of every game of his club and team, so it's friendly, so there's either that third league, so there's no provision just for a risky game that would be logical. This means that a fan who has a ban on Croatian team matches, if the Croatian team plays in China, must then contact the police station, so the police will check it out during the match 2 hours and 2 hours after he is there. So imagine what the Croatian police are doing in our society. Here, so now Professor Podolnjak, I'm just going to finish, this law therefore won't prevent riots in the stadiums, that he has his own political dimension, that according to these provisions, fans will be removed from the stands, but I warmly warn you, that your fans are in the stands rather than your fans are in front of Mark's square. So that's my warm recommendation and include them in the second reading. It's not true. I was on the stands where you were called by teachers from the Law School, sociologists, so no hooligans, and they wanted to establish a dialogue with you, you didn't respond. So their password is "when injustice becomes law, resistance becomes duty". I'm seriously well-intentioned to you to reject these changes because there can be really honest things going on and I really don't want violence to lead to new violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183011	Thank you. Professor Downhill. ... And time will run out. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right. Okay. Then the next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected MP Mikulic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183012	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Katic, with his co-worker, co-workers and fellow parliamentary deputies. Today we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, a law that always brings great attention to parts of our public. I visit sports competitions very often myself, and it is in my interest to feel safe in the stadium or in the hall, as well as outside. Violence in sports competitions misbehaves, riots before, during or after a sports competition sometimes lead to a threat to the safety and health of others as well as material damage by destroying property. Of course, this is not the problem of modern times, his history dates back to ancient times until Hazel, the finale of the Champions League in 1985, a terrible tragedy that resulted in more than 500 deaths and 39 deaths just under the influence of sports violence. This event was set by a turning point when it started to regulate national legislation with the aim of ensuring the safety of viewers, competitors and public and private assets were both done by England, Italy, Poland, and France. And today violence in sports competitions is a universal phenomenon, almost every weekend we witness riots in sports competitions around the world, unfortunately sometimes with the most severe consequences and deaths. It is precisely because of these situations that have not bypassed our country, that there is a need to prevent riots, unwanted consequences, and therefore we prescribe this legal framework and these legal provisions, and all this has led to the establishment of measures to prevent, combat and sanction violence related to sport competitions with a view to security, with a view to protecting our citizens as well as public and private property. When we talk about this law, the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, it was adopted in 2003, because at that time we had virtually no legal act to prevent, combat and sanction riots and violence on our fields, on our halls, on our battlefields. At that time, the law, as it is today, is not written with the intention of repression against our fans and our fans' associations, but exclusively with the intention of ensuring the safety of viewers, competitors and preventing, suppressing and sanctioning improper behaviour, violence before, during and after the sport competition. As before today, the law provides for sanctions in the form of fines, prison sentences, safeguard measures, preventive measures, educational measures for minors and the like. During that time, the law was changed both in 2006 and in 2009 and in 2011 because of the lack of capacity within it, but with a clear goal of preventing riots. The ministry has opted for changes within this law because it believes it is necessary to improve and create conditions that will prevent inappropriate behaviour to the detriment of viewers, sports clubs, alliances and ultimately the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia. Let us only remember how proud we were of our football players in Russia where we achieved historical results and united and cheered up our people as never before. Over half a million people have been here for the welcome in Zagreb and now imagine because of several individual incidents we did not go to this competition. Since this law is a tool for police and courts to tackle riot prevention, all measures are aimed at offenders, neither at viewers, fans or fan groups. No one's goal is to prevent thundering cheerleading, no one's goal is to prevent the graphite of favorite clubs that embellish our facades, no one's defending the corteo, choreography, jokes, hats, forbids causing riots, endangering everyone around us and destroying property. I would like to list some of the changes that we find in this bill, they are in front of us, and since there were provisions that made it difficult or impossible for the police to act in certain situations in order to create a safe environment before, during and after the sports competitions that we all want to enjoy together. The current Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions treats physical violence exclusively as a criminal offence, while such unlawful behaviours of weaker intensity have been sanctioned as a violation for which low fines have been imposed without the possibility to impose a safeguard measure prohibiting the presence of a sports competition. These changes, proposed in addition to criminal charges, also suggest the criminal sanctioning of perpetrators of physical violence, provide for greater penalties for perpetrators and enables the imposition of protective measures to prohibit the presence of certain competitions. The destruction and damage of property during arrival, duration or departure from the sport competition is currently prescribed as a criminal offence, which requires damage of 60,000 kuna per perpetrator, resulting in the non-processing of individuals. In this way the property is protected in a way that the damage of public or private property is characterized as a violation which is sufficient and minor damage, and these situations unfortunately testify and I am sure that it is in all our best interests to protect public and private property before, during and after sports competitions. When we talk about coming to sports competitions in an alcoholic state or under the influence of intoxicating drugs, they are also in the current law and it is important to stress that so far a person could refuse alcohol testing and drug testing and enter sports facilities without sanctions while these changes would only be characterised as a violation. And it is important to note in this measure that it is aimed at those risky relapsers with the aim of reducing riots because, rarely, alcohol and drugs are the cause of such behaviour. The measure that also caused the public's reaction is also a measure of punishing the possession of objects to conceal the identity of the so-called. Boys. It is important here to stress that it is not about those classic cheerleader props like scarfs, hats, paints on the face, but those specific objects whose intention is to conceal identity, which ultimately makes it difficult for the police to identify the persons involved in certain crimes. It is also prescribed by this law. It is prescribed by this law and hastening in the conduct of courts in such a way that courts have no more than 8 days to decide on a ban on attending the competition. I think it's the role of the police to protect the citizens, not to terrorize the fans, and I believe that's the way it is in the end. So today we have a legal framework that is aimed at offenders, not fans or fan groups. Since there is a great interest in part of our fellow citizens and since we are in the first reading we can all make this legislative proposal better, better quality, more acceptable to all interested. The goal must remain the same, it is to prevent violence, a prevention that must exist because of all those going to the stadium, to the halls or to the battlefields. In this case, the law applies to individuals, not all fans, and all of us together must have faith in both the police and their work, but they must have the authority to enforce the law that we will believe and debate about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183013	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic on behalf of whom the respected representative Hasanbegovic will speak, and will share time with counterpart Zekanovic. Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183014	Respected on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs, I will speak partly of the basis of my own fan experience, the mood of the Tribine, but also of a valuable sociological work by Ivan Zečević, fans from the stands in Maksimir know of whom it is, under the heading "The Moral Panic as a Factor of the Legislative Process" example of this law. In fact, it is through the sociological theory of moral panic that shows what is the real original background of the adoption of this law, and the same sociological theory of moral panic, namely hysteria, can also be applied to other ideological lex specialis laws, such as the Law on Protection against Family Violence or the Law on Discussing Discrimination or Ideological tract, etc. Istanbul Conventions. The background is always the same with the creation of a moral panic that has several theoretical constituent elements, for example the alleged concern of so-called. a public who is artificially created through media-shaped perceptions of dangers in fact media hysteria, not complete insight into the actual scope and background of phenomena in this case of fan violence. Then so-called. enmity, more specifically, creating an enemy figure in this case a fan group like that, then so on. Social consensus, i.e. The so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’ of the so-called ‘consensual opinion’. a general public that no one has ever established. There is, of course, disproportionateness in this case exaggeration in real violence figures in sports competitions, for example. Mr. Secretary of State knows well, e.g. the number of persons brought against whom no proceedings has ever been initiated has been treated as the number of perpetrators of the offence, etc., the spread of the unproven flossula that parents and children allegedly do not come to stadiums for violence, not the quality of the league, the miserable state of stadiums, the corrupt background of professional sport and so on and so on. In the end, it is my modest contribution to this sociological theory, there are also unfortunate media icons of moral panic that are more accurate, an example of "Save Me" Jelena Veleca in the case of other laws or in the case of the application of this law younger in the stands do not even remember the prominent expert on cheerleading subculture and Croatia she would have Margaret Thatcher Mrs. Đurđe Adlešić. The reason for the adoption of this law since 2003 has been a concrete incident behind all subsequent repressive changes, but we now have the exception of admitting that violence is being reduced, so what is it about, which leads to the adoption of this law except by looking for a police dictionary to punish acts that are not against any law. Well, if they're not illegal, then they shouldn't be punished. So, until the adoption of this law since 2003, the Law on infringements against public order and peace has been applied, the Law on Public Assembly, the Criminal Law, and that is quite enough. Therefore, behaviours governed by the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions fall mainly into violations against working order and peace, they generally take place in public places, so if these behaviours are already governed by the Law on Infringements whether we need so-called. The cheerleader law, of course not. Is it necessary to pass special laws only because of the place where an illegal conduct takes place or a comprehensive approach is needed? If we are not prone to full approach, a palitative solution could soon be found on the parliamentary benches and a bill on the prevention of restaurant riots, a bill on the prevention of riots in the so-called so-called so-called area. National clubs or the draft law on the prevention of riots in the Croatian PEN Centre, remind me of the case of Baba, Kuš, Raos, Cacinović from 2013. If the intention really was to prevent riots in sports competitions, not anti-constitutional repression because of repression and political fear of freedom, then the free and unsupervised tribune would come before the Parliament with a proposal for a new and whole Law on Public Order and Peace violations, and in 2019 there would be no one in Yugoslavia with a novel in the telling of fines in non-existent German marks, which turns courts and judges among other exchanges of exchange rate difference experts. Thus, such a particulative and palitative solution in the form of a special Law on the Prevention of Disturbation contributes to over-indulgence and confusion among all those who need to implement the law and who need to abide by it. The final point is, this law does not need to be corrected, Mr. Secretary of State and Representative Jovanovic are not being passed on the basis of so-called. The impressions, we all have different impressions of any phenomenon, but based on the fact that they are. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt a new Law on infringements against public order and peace and an overall solution which includes amendments to the Penal Code, the Law on Public Collection, the ideological and in fact unnecessary Law on Discrimination and the Law on Sport, which will more clearly identify relevant concepts, legal institutes, the characteristics of violations and criminal offences, as a violation of an act which has an adverse impact on the state of public order and peace in which there would be no counter-constitutional segregation and discrimination and violation of what we call human rights. So here we have a bizarre fact that has escaped everyone's e-Advising something called the House of Human Rights, whatever that means, instead of pointing to the repressive element of this law, it's looking for an even stronger repression that you didn't even agree to. Therefore, all these new legal solutions would eliminate the indetermination of certain provisions of this law and the possibility of their abuse in dozens, not to say hundreds of concrete examples of different interpretation and application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183015	Thank you. The respected representative Zekanovic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183016	Your Honor. I'll be up to my colleague Hasanbegovic, perhaps we should pass a law on the prevention of riots and violence in the Croatian Parliament. Well, this is where the Prime Minister ran here through the assembly and wanted to deal with a fellow MP. Are we going to have that law? We won't. I am very sorry that this law does not defend Minister Bozinovic here, he is not in the Parliament, you are always there, you are always cannon meat, and Minister Bozinovic is not here, he was not at all. It happens eventually when trust is a government or a current watch, but he never dared to defend one law or one of these. Common sense says, and colleagues and colleagues who will vote for this, look at it and read it, is it one of the worst laws? I'm not talking from the perspective of that man who, as a guy, has torn up the vocals a thousand times for a beloved club, I guess most of you aren't, maybe some of you are, but I'm talking out of a purely legal understanding of this terrible act. So, you yourself just said that this law is selectively applied. Is that possible? Well, here you are, I don't even know what the Secretary of State's name is, but I've been asking around that you're an M.O.P. employee, right? Internal affairs, yeah, well, then you say that in no situation will you let drunk people into the stands, not in another situation. Who's crazy here? And that's what we from a man who's highly positioned in the MUP hear as information. The second thing, I do not know which colleague pointed out here, is mentioned in Article 2 of the amendment and the addition of “the masking of the face with a cap, a scarf or other way of concealing the identity or possession of objects intended to conceal identity”. What's that? Does that apply to ski competitions? Ski glasses, ski hat, horseshoes, is that what that includes? So write a normal law, write this down doesn't apply to ski competitions. Call this your real name. This is a law against cheerleading groups exclusively in football stadiums. So say it more clearly and loudly and say it only in the first Croatian football league and possibly in the second. So call him by his real name than you let every police officer do whatever he wants. And you, as one prominent M.O.P. employee, say this law can be selectively applied. I don't know who's crazy here. Furthermore, you mentioned alcohol, so my people did read this, article 21 says it forbids, article 25 forbids, and here you say it can. On the other hand, you know that alcohol is poured into the hectolitres in the honorable lodges. So ban it there, ban it there and ban the cooked wine on the Snow Queen or change the law, this law doesn't hold water, so the worst possible law. A colleague pointed out here why they didn't contact the cheerleading associations, so these are the guys, the guys, the guys, there are also the girls, who would like to sit down with you and, and explained to you legally that you're passing bad law. If it is in your interest to pass the law never to have the support of 10,000 young people in Vukovar, when violence against Croats was expressed in Croatia's Vukovar 10 years ago, then perhaps you will succeed, if that's what you say, we don't want 10,000 guys to ever come to Croatian Vukovar and sing Croatian songs again, we don't want to sing patriotic songs on Croatian grounds, where are they still singing? Do you know where? Nowhere. In schools they don't sing, we don't sing them in Parliament, if it's in your interest to never mention Mother Kata Šoljic again, then introduce this law, if it's in your interest not to mention Treasure Zadar, enter this law, so this law has one deep, deep background, and that background is not violence because violence is on the sidelines here. And if you really want to prevent violence, then let's just say what your colleague said earlier, the Law on Public Orders and Peace Act, so make it right, and then apply it to the Prime Minister, excuse me, to the Prime Minister who runs here through the Assembly wants to deal with a colleague, apply it to him, and on the other hand, please read it first, this law itself, life isn't just something quantitative, there's love in life, love to the country, to the country, to the people, to the family, and believe it or cannot be to the club, someone loves his club very much, likes his own club, we have a local patriotism with patriotism, and that's something irrational, and instead of watering it, this patriotism because these guys, I'm going to say again, in '91. First on the front, defend with that emblem of your club, defend the state and freedom, we try to destroy it in every way possible. And we will never mention the voluntary giving of the blood of those same fans that we're all afraid of, we won't mention fire-extinguishing actions, we won't mention numerous humanitarian actions, but it will always point out that someone got into a fight somewhere, I don't approve of violence, no one approves of it, and we will ignore violence in this same assembly. I'll repeat the third time when the Prime Minister runs across the assembly, and that's okay, he's got a tie, and whoever puts on a phantom, and he's a criminal because he loves his club, loves his city, loves his country, loves his people. But here's a message for the end, no matter what you try to write on these papers, you won't destroy your fans, you won't succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183017	The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183018	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, the problem of violence in sports competitions is not since yesterday, we meet him in everything, not only modern but deposing Oriental societies, because we know that many certain sports are perceived as valves through which they try to solve their frustrations in some other fields, and then they think that their private wars can continue on sports grounds independently of the field as such or theater. Sports is not and must not be a continuation of war by other means and there are no nicer things than to be an active and positive fan, get the opportunity and show your emotions, show your enthusiasm with the success of sports as a competition in what competence is, in what is good, and so participates the entire nations. Ours, the success of our football players in world competitions really inculcates certain adrenaline people, we all witnessed it, and the participants, too, should respect it, people need to show their emotions, participate in something that is good in collective satisfaction, in collective celebration, especially when some of the ugly times, when on other sides they have a whole series of reasons to be depressed, sad, worried. However, careful care should be taken to keep those who love and rejoice from those who hate and break down. So the attempt to replace the the thesis that the hooligans, that the hooligans are some kind of patriots, that those people who love their country, it's simply incorrect, it's nakarada, the one who loves his country, his people, his city, first of all, he doesn't hate anyone, and on the other hand he'll never hurt anyone, he'll never hurt him, he'll never destroy around himself, why? Because he likes it. He will show his happiness in 1001 ways, even dissatisfaction, but he will not turn into a beast and will not destroy and will not beat; God forbid you kill, they are not patriots, they are hooligans, and let us not let some coward's egg be planted. Cheerleaders, one pair of sleeves, hooligans, the other. But what did we do to prevent the real thing? Because high penalization can also act as a deterrent, a deterrent system, as a deterrent, but it's not a prevention. Prevention is a change in someone's intention and belief that it should be done, so someone thinks someone should break their head. Someone thinks something needs to be torn down. The prevention is to convince him that he should do so, not threaten to be severely punished, and then he will refrain. But it might happen in the other one when there's no open threat and it does. So, what did we do? To identify fan groups as initiatives and solid cores of citizens in which a certain social activity takes place. To help them separate themselves from those who are hooligans, destroyers, haters, criminals. That they don't criminalize them, that they create an atmosphere in which fathers can take their underage child to a football game for the first time without fear of being hit, trampled, and caused him any other trouble. How many people I've heard say I haven't been to the game in 15 years. I can't go anymore, I'm no longer well there, I'm afraid for myself, I'm afraid for my son, for my daughter. And sometimes going to a game with my father was one moment of growing up. And many boys, but also many girls remembered that moment as a moment where they won one step of their maturation more, and we are in this situation today that parents avoid going to football games fearing for their child. Are we going to start at the end and go with higher dragon sentences, especially these high financial penalties and hope that the problem will be solved or we'll get back to the beginning and say, politicians, step out of sports clubs. What are you doing in there? What is it, what is your place in football club and alliance management? What are you doing there? What do you want with it? Step away from that space, he must not be polluted by politics. If you want to help that club, give him a cash contribution. Why did the boards of clubs and alliances get pushed by the great politicians? What is that, a treatment of frustration? He's never given a basket in elementary school, but he wants to be a member of the basketball union presidency or any other sport. Secondly, the mob needs to be driven out of the sport. If someone has a lot of money, it doesn't mean they have to sit in the sports club administration. In sports clubs there should be honest and honest people who can be a role model to everyone. Whose picture every athlete can put on a wall and say, "That's my role model." Not blow, bandits and mobsters. That's where it all comes from. 'Cause for them, fans of the subjugation stuff. And they're the ones who beat each other in their name down in the stands and break each other's heads. They're the ones who have orgies and crazy in their lodges. In the salons. That's where it all comes from. For them, these fans of hot heads, empty, naive, go fighting. They're going to beat up others. The same as they are. We liberals don't like it when you come to this house and suggest an increase in repression, and you, I must tell you, that's our impression, in this term, you really do it whenever you come. Every time you come here with a request to boost the repression. Maybe it's a reflection of your impotence because of the lack of a judicial system, but keep in mind that we're not going to solve the problem like that, every time we tighten the fines. Obviously, there's a problem in the judiciary. Some countries have law enforcement judges in stadiums. Right on site. No wisdom, no waste of time. The hooligan comes by his ears, says what he's done and gets a ticket. And he's on his way to execution at the same time. If that kind of efficiency existed, many would wonder if I needed it. And if he knew, when he drank, he'd go crazy, he wouldn't drink. But let's not be hypocritical when it comes to alcohol. Either you allow it or forbid it. Well, this is a hollow story. You can drink, but don't do any cherecs, but if you find yourself in the way of some hooligans who'll push you down and you'll fall, the camera will automatically record you rolling with them and you're in the same gable. So we know how the Law of Preventing the Disruption of Order and Peace, say, treats the victims. If an employee in a catering facility because someone is going crazy, breaking, insulting, endangering the safety of other exorcists, he is just as punished as he is because he has disrupted public order and peace. So don't disturb if you wait and watch what happens and let it break everything around you, endangering other people. So here and here. How do we know who the victim is and who the unsub is? So, or ban alcohol, only that in Croatia will hardly pass in some parts. If you forbid alcohol, you wouldn't even have anyone to play in the field, let alone cheer on, in the theater. But let's not be hypocrites. If there's no consumption, then it's not even in the shed, it's not in the theater, but it's not even in the locker rooms. But the same goes for drug consumption. I think she's a much bigger problem and he's telling her a little bit. Alcohol only improves what drugs in many cases actually cause. If this society were truly sincere in its fight against this monster, and it is exposed to the child of each of us, then much, much less problems would arise because only data on the quality of water and chemical composition of water, say that the citizens of Zagreb have doubled the consumption of cocaine in the last year. It's a very worrying thing. From this comes a thousand and one problem, from behavior to delinquency and everything that goes with drug consumption. The state has to declare two alarms. One is fighting drugs and the other is fighting for a better climate. That's two of the most urgent, two of the most urgent things in the moment that stand, if you will, in front of us as a legislative body. As long as we don't declare those two ERs, we won't do anything. It will do whatever it wants or what the existing regulation in certain frameworks already allows it to do on certain occasions. So, at the beginning, we're skeptical. We'll wait for another reading. We'll see if you have a better argument. We think that fines are really too high because many people, because they can't pay 15 thousand kuna, may have to go to jail. You know that Croatian prisons are overcrowded and that the prison sentence for someone who is unable to pay cash amounts in these circumstances is much, much more difficult than the financial one, but we are not for anyone to be looked through their fingers, we are not for the punishment to be leniency, the penalties must be felt by those who are punished. But also, explain some of the provisions already, according to some other clubs, that the area of discretion and discretion to the police remains as small as possible. You know very well that whenever the area of discretion spreads to the police, there is a great, great danger that the police are accused of abuse. So the clearer the rules of the game, the better the life tomorrow for all those who must participate in this system. From the last cop to the one above him. And on the other hand, if you want to protect the police in all these situations, return the cameras to their chests. I don't know why you threw them away. While the cameras were, they were much more protected than they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183019	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183020	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Katic with his associate, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions was adopted in 2003. So far, it has experienced 3 amendments and, as a rule, and its adoption, but also all the changes that took place, there has always been some kind of event. As a rule, unfortunate, therefore, the last change that happened seems to me after that conflict in Split in 2010. .../incomprehensible/...eyes. But there's always been some sort of cause and this is now really the first time to be brought without any cause, even though that problem is, let's say in hooligans and sports-related violence, constant one. So it's not just about certain games now. And now, what I'm saying is that we from the SDP have, on several occasions, already appealed to you from the MUP to return to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts in Sports Competitions, which has been removed from that law over the past years, since that instrument has been a lot preventing the possibility and restricting the action of the police, i.e. the offenders, the hooligans, let's call it, have been treated under the law on prevention, public order and peace, and that's what colleagues have been saying, which is also out of date and who gave up his sentence there in German marks, which is an additional problem, but what it looked like. So, certain cheerleading groups or individuals who call themselves fans, I'm not going to tell the general cheerleading group have arranged certain fights on the highways, we have a situation that from Sibenik vehicles were followed by some fans, they got caught there by Senj, so he drives 200 km and then they fought there. Under existing legislation, they would get all the criminal penalties of 100 German marks, pay that, go home and nothing. We asked for it to be returned to this law precisely because then they could be determined by measures if they did something, measures to limit the arrival of the stadium, to prevent the happening again, in fact, it's a measure aimed at the relapse. Secondly, football which is the main theme, but also handball, now current, water polo and all other sports are played for athletes, but are also played for fans. No fans, or people who follow it, they'd play. So, not all hooligan fans are hooligans, and that doesn't need to be generalized, and that's what we in the SDP think is that because of these riots we condemn every form of violence, but because of the situation in Croatian sport and because of the riots that are happening, even the increase in violence, it's not only those who do it. They are guilty and the clubs are guilty and the alliances are guilty and the people who have been in Croatian sport for years and the system that doesn't find a solution how to bring it to order, and it's one problem that's been laid down for years and now, this is all expensive just to escalate it, so we in SDP have proposed our proposal to amend the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions precisely because we're not satisfied with these yours, we've been waiting, we thought we'd support this law because we didn't think we should make some changes, but what you've done now, in our opinion, doesn't solve any problem, that just increases the repression and, and, and, and, and overruning some police powers, we think, will not lead to a solution of the problem, and therefore we've made our whole proposal, we've referred it to the procedure, so that it's directed and to strengthening of penalties, not how you're made in this system, but we'll be able to the whole of the police. Also, this stricter regulation for competition organizers, so we have a stricter selection of directors in sports competitions, we have put it in our proposal, removing people from sports that are certainly not a place, so we have a series of examples in the Republic of Croatia where some of them have practically usurped certain alliances and, and, and, and there, manipulate and clubs, which then challenge these fans and challenges, cause people who just don't know what to do and then sometimes approach and violence, so they know what I'm talking about, they're talking about, in NK Dinamo's leadership, in HNS, in which of the 17 members of the Executive Board 11 are members of HDZ, so HDZ has put their fat paws on HNS and it irritates the viewers, irritates the people who monitor football in Croatia, and many people in Croatia are following football and these things that aren't good and they can't go to the end with all these things. So it's the same, one kind of provoking people and the injustice that happens in Croatian football is essentially a dispute of the north and the south, and then on the other hand, here colleagues before me have spoken we have a series of joint actions where fans show that they can still together, so the only denominator that divides them is the politicization of sports and HDZ in sport, it needs a clear and open word. What we are opposed to in this bill of yours is some, first of all, an increase in drastic punishment, so colleagues before me have spoken we have three times as many criminal provisions, fines for certain violations of the Sport Act compared to traffic, we find it inadmissible. I will also mention alcohol, alcohol in the lodges, but not as an argument that alcohol should be banned in the stands, but in fact, why did you come to provision 0.5, for what? I mean, there's been some studies that have been proven that in traffic this disrupts the ability and ability to drive certain vehicles, 0.5 is a state of impediment, you're not drunk. Why didn't you go one step further, then raise to 0.8, for example? in, in, in, in, on sports grounds, that you can have 0.8 alcohol in your blood at the match, but if you make a mess under such influence or anyone in traffic, you can have 0.5, but you did, you stepped on someone on the road, then if you have 0.1 is more severe your punishment than zero, you should have done that, let it go to 0.8, but whoever under 0.1 alcohol causes a fight, violence, damage to the club, or, or destroys public property, punish him three times as much as you planned, it's a good measure for me. I often go to games this NK River and watch them and always keep us company for an hour two before in one cafe, there we all get together, we drink one drink, two, we don't get drunk, we go to the game, we never do any mess, and now why would you forbid it, it's not clear to me at all, and in this way what you've prescribed, the only thing we're adding to the drug testing, which I'm saying, which is fine, which is a lot more trouble than alcohol, but what you've done now, so the police officers are going to see someone and say to you again I suspect that you're drunk and then they're going to give him a Dreger to smoke, so not all of whom they're assessing that he's alcoholic, or that we might be alcoholized, so there're opening up one space for the cops to act on what you're not, and now I'll see that you're not, and I're going to be a good at the point, and I'll be able to explain it'll be able to explain it. The other thing, masking it famously, so you put the phantoms, which I support, who puts the phantom to it, is certainly not the intention of being clean, but whoever has the scarf can't do it, and on the other hand I can't put a scarf in the blue white color of their NK River club that no one recognizes me alive, I only have this paint on me, if I can, according to this bill of yours, but I can't put a scarf on it, so you're completely inconsistencies and we think that you should, too, correctly prescribe it and appeal it or support the attitude that whoever disguised or hides his identity and does a mess or something to punish him dearly, I would have closed it, but not like that there can be certain abuse again. We think it's a good thing this is with courts that within eight days they need to take a measure, here it is, a good thing in this law, maybe the only thing we see, even though it's not enough to support me, we'll see what it's going to be to another reading, and as for this same assessment of coming to the stadium, going before the stadium, it's the same broad notion that gives us space again for certain abuses by police employees, which is not good and it might not be good because it might be too much abuse again. Col. Ostojić mentioned it in his replica, I think you did not get it well, Mr. Katić when he was mentioned today whether the phones would be taken away because they could be someone's means of injury, he referred to today's text which was published in the Index where citizens, therefore, citizens of the Republic of Croatia recorded secret police treatment against migrants who were on the train from Sisak to Zagreb, you have a video of police officers coming to the migrants and taking away their mobile devices, giving them a cell phone and they knew exactly, the man there gave his testimony and everything that, they had no badges, had no hats, so they were legally trained. When a citizen there asked them what you were doing, he told him "you stay out of it, whoever asks you, come sit there, watch your business," you got a tape on Index, check it out, then the press sent you an inquiry to the ministry, you responded that they seized it, that's the official answer, that they seized the phones because they were to prevent injury by migrants with a cell phone. Now, that's why my colleague Ostojić asked. That's one example, it's not generally like that, but obviously there are some police officers who do this, and now I'm asking you in the stadium when he sees someone, he's going to evaluate his father, I'm going to throw his cell phone on someone's head, or I'm going to take it away from him, so I don't know, and then I'm going to have to stretch there, he's going to give it back to me, and then he's going to tell me that I'm aggressive, so he's going to lock me up, etc. I had one unpleasant scene with one police officer at a sports event where I was just standing there watching a crowd happening next to me. I didn't participate in it, and then an intervention officer came to me and he said "toss a cigarette out of my hand". I started laughing at him, I said, "Why?" And then he grabbed my hand like this, started pulling and said, "You're refusing a police order, now I'm going to bring you in." And then I tell him, "What's the police order, to throw a cigarette out of your hand?" And it ended up so that I then identified myself as a parliamentary representative and still wanted to bring me in, he said, "I'm going to drag you into the bar, we're going to break you in," and then another colleague came in and it stopped and later your internal control found that he overstepped his powers and he was punished, the police officer was suspended. Now I'm asking you okay, but if I wasn't a parliamentary representative, I was some kind of xy person on the road, what then? Then you take him there to the march, we know how it goes, then there he stands out, then you move a little bit, stop driving, and it's not good, so you won't solve the problems, and I don't think this bill just gives room for such things, unfortunately and it needs to be corrected, it needs to be strictly prescribed, it needs to separate those who are hooligans and who are making a mess of those who come to the game and cheer for their club. And the second thing again, the greater emphasis for us in the SDP is the bigger problem or the biggest cause of all problems is the politicisation of sports, HDZs in football club managements sitting with indictees in VIP bars and not wanting to move there. You can only drive him away if it comes to the extent that the USCOD has raised so much criminal charges and condemned him and then fled to Bosnia, it's the only way to move someone from a football club's administration and these are the people who are funding your party, who are raising atmospheres at your meetings, who are organizing birthdays for your presidential officials, etc., and people see and then people are irritated and that's one of the big causes of the problem, and so let's say the SDP gives its own bill in which we solve a general problem, so with this violence that needs to be severely punished, we propose how to remove such people from sports and in an individual debate I'll talk about this phenomenon of fans and HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183021	The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183022	Thank you, Vice President. Says a counsellor at the SDSS club, maybe we shouldn't talk because I'm the only woman who talks about this subject today, but I think of course she doesn't have any or shouldn't be in a meeting of male and female subjects. I don't know much about sports, but I dare talk about this bill, so allow me from the position of a graduate lawyer, I think I can help something to make this legal proposal that I have some suggestions on better. Thus, in the fight against riots and the avoidance of unwanted consequences of disorder, many countries have entered into the creation of legislative frameworks and the adoption of specific laws regulating this matter. Violence in sports competitions is a form of violence that has been gathering our attention for several years. In addition to violence in sports competitions, today the most exists besides him is domestic violence, street violence, violence among different subcultural groups, ethnic violence, etc. The EU has taken a large number of measures to combat non-sports behaviour in sport competitions with the task of detecting and launching procedures against cheerleading hooligans and therefore it is very important to distinguish hooligans and talk about them in another context compared to fans who are generally whether, fans of their clubs. First of all, to prevent such persons from leaving their country, at the time of international sports competitions, from entering such persons in the country where sports competitions are held, and from establishing international cooperation to combat illegal behaviour in sports competitions. The European Convention on Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Contests plays an important role in countering riots in international sports competitions, especially at football matches adopted by 19. 8. 1985 in Strasbourg. That convention was adopted primarily in response to the hooligan violence that took place at the Heysel Stadium, and this particular tragedy was the driver and one of the main reasons why the speedy adoption of the convention followed by the regulation of national legislation in order to ensure the safety of viewers, competitors and other participants in sport competitions. In addition to the convention, the Council of Europe has also made a number of recommendations for which the countries signatories of the Convention are also required to be incorporated into their national legislation. England has adopted the first state, the first state to pass 89th Law on football fans, and that law has prescribed a number of crimes and offences in which the perpetrators are football fans or organisers. And the English legal framework has proved to be the most effective in curbing violence. This has not only contributed to high fines and long-term prison sentences imposed on hooligans, but also to the application of various preventive measures that have affected the removal of social causes leading to violent behaviour at sports events. The successful result is a reflection of the determined and consistent application of legal regulations and the strict criminal policies of English courts. In addition to England, according to the application of special regulations intended to combat violence and misbehavior at sports events and strictly sanctioning violent and inappropriate behaviour, they gave observed results in both Poland and Italy. Something about this supplementation proposal now, it is envisaged, is the need to sanction the arrival of sports competitions under the obvious influence of alcohol and drugs in such a way that already, by refusing the test by a measuring device, it enters the infringement zone. In order to facilitate identity identification, it will provide for a ban on coming to sports competitions in clothes designed to create identities. Fans and individual clubs point out that it is about stricter restrictive amendments to the law and severe sanctions for perpetrators. Most of the objections were made to the disputed provisions of the law, which concern art. 4th century. 1st century. It states that illegal behaviour is considered an attempt to enter, arrive and stay in the space of a sports facility under the influence of drugs, in an alcoholic state above 0.5, i.e. the appropriate amount of milligrams in a litre of exhaled air, etc. The question arises when the basis for treating a person who consumes alcohol begins. Whether it begins at the time when it truly becomes a threat to others or itself with its behaviour and thus their conduct is no different from that of a person, to any other person under the influence of alcohol outside the stadium. In the proposed text, it was necessary to specify the time, or limit the time. We have before, during and after the game. In contrast, from several times mentioned in England, where precise time is limited before and after the game in which the law is applied, in Croatia it is not because of the term before, during and after the game, that is to say, unlimited terms of half an hour or, say, two days, during which time the police have enormous powers of action. It is a controversial and discriminatory provision that everyone who comes to sports competitions dressed in clothing intended to cover their personal identity, for example in a hood T-shirt and a sewn phantom, is threatened with a criminal application and a fine of 2 to 15 thousand kuna. The option is a 30-day prison sentence. In addition, the law states a phrase to conceal an identity that clearly suggests that an intention to conceal an identity should be involved... I can't hear myself how loud they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183023	Here, please, please. It is a common custom to speak out loud, and then the one or the one who speaks cannot say what they want to say. Here are my colleagues, Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183024	Thank you. In the case of sanctioning the very possession of hats or scarves, it would really be a severe repression, above all because a police officer is the only judge that the clothing may be used to mask and it opens the space, therefore, opens the space for selective application. Because of this provision, the current version of this law is the most repressive in Europe, even more severe than the English law I have previously cited as an example. The application of the law must be the same for everyone. When serious crimes are adequately sanctioned, most acts of violence will fall apart, without a specific legal framework for sports resorts. So we won't forget the situation when the tribune was plowed by all kinds of shoutings that we're all supposed to be ashamed of, so let's remember that, when we remember, there were politicians who didn't hear it or the screams "For Home Ready," there were those who justified it with the existence of an old Croatian greeting. The fact is that even today, the problems of sports competition riots are almost exclusively addressed by the police and the court as a repressive machine for long-term viewing, will not get better results. We believe that by including a wider social community, the proactive action of the National Committee on Combating Violence in Sports and a stronger activation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Programmes of Measures, education in the fight against violence in sport and in sport competitions, with further repressive activity directed towards the perpetrators because it can therefore be expected that a pleasant and friendly atmosphere devoid of labour and violence will prevail in the sports competitions in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183025	The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183026	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, once again, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. It's not as many hours as I think we've heard of something that actually changes very little, which I mean that what's changing is not good or at least many people think it's not good because we don't get into a new core here, we don't do anything or the promoter doesn't do anything dramaticly new, some new extra repression, what's first, these few of some changes that we can lead to controversy, and I'm just going to argue with it right now, but everything, this wider context is something that's already in effect since 2011. And no one's ever changed it before, and I might agree that maybe we should have gotten into these changes one way or the other, we opened that so-called. Pandora's box and now we're all discussing it, but we haven't addressed ourselves to all the problems. What will be done here is that it is now an offence, not an illegal act as stated in the law in Article. 4. of the existing law, coming to a sports competition or under the influence of drugs or alcohol, which, then being quoted and prescribed, is actually one and the same wording of 0.5 passed alcohol in the blood, that was before, but now it's just said that if you refuse to test yourself that you do so by the letter of the law, and in two places, as far as I've managed to see it, a little legal provision is left here, in the explanation it actually explains, you're in violation, or you're acting wrong, so the penalties are up to 15,000,00 kn for a natural person who, for example, is under the influence of alcohol at the game. At the same time, the same man, four, says you can sell or have, use, buy alcoholic beverages that have less than 6% alcohol, that's what you laugh. One parallel with, there's now someone mentioning England, so in England when you go to the game you're on the stands, to understand the stands you can't bring in alcohol, but there's these modern stadiums, so every level has a circle where you're going to have a different little pultures, tents, whatever you call it, where you sell food and drink, where you can buy beer and you have it out there, and you can consume that beer in that space, now as much as you can at half time or before the game, you can drink, you've got so much to drink, you can't bring alcohol into the stands, but obviously drunk or under the influence of alcohol you can be. And what are we doing here now? We here, in fact, the meaning of all of this is that we who, so don't punish everything, like we're not going to punish everyone who comes, they're a little drunk and they're doing well, they're not relevant to them, and that's how in practice I guess, but legally it's not, we're saying here that, too, another thing that's going to happen, that we're going to change that as someone is wearing some kind of cloaking agent whether or not it can be anything right now, but in an explanation it's nice saying, it says that this is specifically about, for example, hats so-called. phantoms, then hats sewn under the lining, phantoms, etc. and to point out that possession of items such as cheerleading scarves, scarfs, hats, shilter does not constitute unlawful behaviour in terms of proposed changes and additions. However, the courts do not call for an explanation but for the law, police officers if we are to look, if we are to make a cut, the law is read, and not what the legislator meant by it, the reasoning is an explanation, if you can punish someone by the letter of the law, meaning that we said in an explanation that this does not mean, that should be within the very letter of the law, in the basic regulations which are the concepts, is that we need to change what we mean by that, that we write here on the side of the bill does not mean anything, and I see that in this direction it is considered, but I say why again. The purpose of all of this is to have, and I'm just going to say, one, one example when you're filling out a questionnaire for an American visa that I hope we'll experience once and for all that, to end it, then they ask us all and all kinds of things, are you not a criminal, were you smuggling, were you involved in some, all the criminal activities and all that, now you don't, no, now a man wonders which fool would write that, but why do they do it? If you're caught in it and the institutions that did, the fact that you misrepresented the crime there is, and that's why you're being locked up, so is this. You've done something, the very act that you're under the influence of alcohol gives grounds that you're in some breaking... put it in the register, etc. And that's why it's here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, it has been skillfully done to refer to everyone who hasn't done anything, we have to define it this way by the letter of the law it seems to be for everything, and we don't actually come to it as always, and I'll read it later in statistics, what the ringleaders say, it's always the same around here, it's always the same way, it's the same way of working, the modus operand that, which is involved in causing trouble, in moving, it's always more or less like it or the same. You reciting, there's supposed to be a more strict punishment for me, not catching on to this technique if he accidentally had something to drink, so I'm going to seduce him, so we don't know what to do, so we need to be a lot stricter there, because this doesn't make sense to me, so you did drink one beer or two beers, you can't come under the influence, you can't refuse, someone should be a little louder, someone remember, or someone doesn't know what, someone remembers you getting drunk, so you have 0.51, whoa, so you're not even guilty, you're doing something or you don't know if it's okay, and you can drink beer on that same thing, you buy it, you can't possibly bring it in, but you can't buy it there, but you can't buy it there. Says 2016. We had 1070 violations against 1112 natural persons and there were 179 returnees, so 16% and that's 3% lower, by 3.2% less than compared to 2015, then 2017. 1276 violations against 1322 persons, of which 304 returnees, so 23% of those who came back, almost every fifth had already been recorded somewhere, so he did it again, and that's a total of almost 20% of the violations, and then in 2018, watch out, 863 violations against 909 people, so for a third less than and 175 returnees, 19% again, so there we're moving from 16 to 25% of those returnees, so every fifth is already known and spinning around, and there's maybe a solution to go to a bigger repression, once, twice, you don't have more, there we can talk about criminal, criminal provisions and criminal law for those who have already been punished twice, third time criminal provision, there's already a criminal provision there, if you've joined, on the lawn, no offense, criminal punishment, and all that's the difference between the crimes and punishment. This is all so far that we are talking here today at the stage of a misdemeanor or illegal act that is sanctioned by a fine, but more or less everything is in the stage of a crime, we are not talking about criminal provisions if the crime has to be committed by someone else, by another law, we all know what it is, no matter where you are, there is no difference, and there is no difference here, and we now put it differently here, it is a colleague of the story, different Sladoljev, different cause of a fight past a sports competition, now it is different to watch when at a sports competition if you are going drunk from a house party somewhere in the family it's okay if you don't drive naturally and do other offences, but if you go to a game, now it's a problem, and there's no other obvious violation that you have committed and the reason why someone would stop you're going to go to go to a game, by law, in practice, I believe it won't be, but it't be, it't be, it't be, it't be, it't be, it'll be, it't be, it'll be, it'll be, it't be, it' it's illegal, it'll be, it', it', it's illegal, it'll be, it', it's illegal, it't be, it't be, it'll be, it't it', it', it', it't it't be, it't it', it'll be, it', it', it', it', it'll be, it', it', it', it'll be, it', it', it'll be, it', it', it't be, it', it'll be, it', it', it', it'll be, it'll be, it'll be, it', it', it', it'll be, it'll be, it'll be, it', it', it', it', it', it', it'll be, it', it', it'll be all, it', it', it', If the law says so, and then you tell him, and you know, when they did, they put it in the explanation that it won't be so much, it might not be worth anything, and maybe we should be more precise and maybe make that clear, clear part of it, say it to those who are rectifiers, for those who repeat it can't, even if they're too mild, because we have to secure a place in the stadiums, in the stands, in the competitions for the family, that you can bring your child, that we don't have to be afraid, that we don't have to have too much mercy for those who use it in various ways and, and if these are, whether they're doing it in a long or only a few years in the West, and they're going to be able to be able to do it right here, and then we can're going to be able to be able to do it right here, Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183027	Thank you, we will now move to an individual debate and will be the first to be a respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so here I am going to get a little bit attached to the previous debate and some of the things that have been discussed today and my colleagues have pointed out. So, first of all, I want to say that I condemn every form and violence and hooliganism in any way, including sports and sports events, but also others, along with other events, I think that, or we're going to talk when we've been calling for facts all the time, colleagues there from the HDZ have read some events like the headlines, although they've read the events of 2009, 2010, 2011, not these last few years as they have said, and the last few years, what we have, we have some kind of violence related to sporting events but not at stadiums. So, I don't remember the last time an excess happened at a stadium, if the fights and the clashes of fans, or those who are so called because these aren't real fans happening on vacations, on highways, on toll houses, on some meadows, etc. Now why am I saying that? I think that's the main problem right now outside of the stadium, not at the stadium itself, and I think maybe you had a good direction when you decided to prescribe some things by this law, but you didn't do it right. So, again, I'm saying, they're a little too wide for that authority to freely assess where someone's going, where someone's going and let's say we can pack, I don't like you, I'm going to arrest you, why, because we have a reasonable suspicion that you're drunk, you're going to go to the stadium and you're going to be doing some problems there. So, I am for the strictest punishment of relapsers, people who often commit some kind of misdemeanor, destroy some property and stuff, but it's all recorded, so don't tell me that you police officers have no idea who are among those who call themselves fans, let's just say so critical. So you have 100% who causes constant riots, who's the ringleader of some kind, etc. Same thing, it's a question of SOA, a question and security of some kind. So I'm sure you have the elements, and you can't generalize everything alive now, and yet again, I'm going to repeat, I think the main cause of the problem with sports politics, the politicization of sports, is I'm going to show it again. So the people who sit in the lodges, who usurped football clubs and football alliances, one party that's in the lead of the CNS and people are desperate, and that's just what prompted certain riots and certain events that then spill over into the street and that's not good, and you don't solve these suggestions. But it's not since yesterday, so it's not the last five years, it's not 10 years, it's the beginning of the Croatian state. So many colleagues here said that fans with their club emblems were the first to go to the defense of the Croatian state and that is the truth and all the fan groups. Hajduk, so Torcida, BBB, Armada, they were all like one up there. And then the war ended, the first thing that happened in the course of the war itself, HDZ, Franjo Tudjman, is not Dinamo but Croatia. There are no Dinams, he spoke there, there's Dinam in Pancheva, there's Dinam in Cupria, there's no Dinam in Croatia, and then there's either a crime or a crime, there's been a robbery of Dinam's jokes, there's been a sale of Dinam's jokes on the black market, there's been transparency, there's been a break in the banners, there's been an ugly cry on the coaches and then the president of the state. Ugly, on the edge of the excess, is that someone's fault? It's the one who's been defending them. '98. You couldn't be champion if you weren't Croatia. The NK Rivers were stolen in the public eye, and what were the Dinam fans doing then? They weren't looking forward to the titles of their club then, they weren't, they were grieving together with colleagues from Rijeka, they were celebrating only Canjuga and HDZ and that's it. 101 went out, and that was one system that generated all these problems. And that's one of the reasons why I got involved in politics. I was motivated by Croatia, against the Dinams, shutting down 101st, stealing the River Championships, shutting down human freedoms and what the HDZ represented in the '90s, then you went a little more peacefully, then for the last 10, 15 years you've crawled into club management there, so there's Mamic and sponsors, Shukers and various Culousics sitting inside you, and when people look at it, it's normal for you to go crazy. They're powerless because it's a system, it's a state, it's what you do, so you don't deal with real problems. And now we have a law here that re-introduces the repression, which gives the fines enormous, by which again, by the poor. And worst of all, it gives the police a broad assessment. I don't like you, I'm gonna give you a Dreger, you're gonna blow and I'm gonna lock you up and I'm okay with that one. Second thing, I'm gonna say this again. I can't have a joke about my club 'cause I can dress up with it but I can get a white-blue NK River color and be unrecognizable with paint on my face, that's okay. It's under your law, okay, and I can make a bigger problem than wearing a scarf around my neck. But I say, who disguises himself and commits a crime or a fight or something, punish him with the strictest punishment, and especially if he does it another time. Every time a higher sentence is progressive but not like this at the first estimate of a police officer who objected to him, who didn't mind. I'm gonna do it one more time. I'm gonna do what I said in the replica. So if the problem is fans in Croatia, why don't you have a person in charge of fans within the police force? So you don't have a systematic job, it exists in the MUP and it's not in police administrations and don't tell me that it deals with public order and peace, yes, and that's what it comes down to, so a public order and peace worker, fans, masquerade, various festivals, sports events, that tells me that fans aren't so much of a problem because if fans were such a problem then there would be a specialised branch in the police that would deal with as much crime police. You have a crime police department, a department of economic crime, a department of drugs, a department of human trafficking, illegal migration, that's not in this case, it's not. Why was I talking about a fight to get back into this law and I support it? Look, I don't think it's the same if I fight at a folk club and on the highway because I'm a fan and I'm fighting with some fan. Look, as a citizen or you as a citizen, you don't have to go to a folk club if you know there's excises and there's a word of head in your bag and you can come for a drink and you're gonna slap somebody, I'm not going to go to a place like that. But look, if I'm driving down the river-Zagreb highway and I stop for fuel and I accidentally stop where 50 people are fighting because this guy, this one for that one, breaks my car, breaks me down, that's a public security issue. Same as a hate crime. Today someone might say, "Let's end the hate crime tomorrow, because what's the difference?" Is someone on the road slapping you or slapping you motivated because you're other national people, because you're another sex minority, because I don't know you're rooting for someone else, because you have political commitment. So we have a special category, a crime, a hate crime that is motivated by religious, sexual and other freedoms. I also think that the conflict in sports competitions when fans are fighting motivated solely because I'm fighting someone who belongs to a fan group, I think they should be treated differently than when someone fights at a bar or at a restaurant, because I don't have to go there. I've got to walk on the road, there's no other roads, and I can neither be guilty nor in debt. But still not in this way, that this one gives police officers an independent appraisal of who they will sanction, whom they don't. So these are a little too broad powers and all your colleagues are saying, give it a little bit until the second reading, try to make it a little bit more detailed and take it, let's say it like that. I'll do it again for the alcohol, 0.5's intoxicated, so why can't someone at the stadium have 0.8. Here, I'll make you a suggestion, please, until the second reading. Put it up to 0.8, and if someone with 0.1 makes a hard, hard act to fight, causes a mess or something, you skin him. And financially and banning you from coming to the stadium or to some other sports competition, sanction it, but don't chase people because someone's had two or three beers. Two hours before the game or the hour he's already got that soft drink at the game and then he drinks another 1-2 beers there and now somebody's gonna see him and say, "Yeah, you're on me now I'm gonna sanction you, here you go. It can't be room for that part of the story, in law at all. And please fix it. The same thing is in traffic. So you can have up to 0.5, only if you've committed a misdemeanor will you answer. Take a picture of it and raise a little level, because it's not the same to drive a car and sit on a game with 0.5, 0.6 or 0.7, so it's not 1.5, but I think it's a 0.8 limit that your employees have suggested. So, the people of the police who deal with it and deal with fans. They told me to suggest up let's go to 0.8. Here, I'm running out of time so much so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183029	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of the Malacans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If freedom and democracy were Dinamo, not Croatia, I remember that time well, but it is not the reason for my replica. You told your colleague that for the past 10 years there has been no violence in our stadiums, maybe it wasn't in the sense of fighting, but this one hears in the stadium kill, slaughter, burn, isn't that violence too. And now in such a context bring your child, so you don't have to get a bottle in your head, but if something like that gets in your ear it's actually almost the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183031	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183032	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you fellow Mateo, so I agree, but it's one step again that needs to be solved. I thought there were no situations, I was at the stadium of Cantrid in 2013 when the Hajduk fans threw torches at the neighboring stands where people were sitting with children and women and ordinary ones, meaning not members of the Armada, and then Rijeka put that famous network on Rujevica, which now wonders that they are confused inside and from above and from below so that someone would not throw. So, but we've managed to at least solve that part so far, because since 2013, I don't remember that there's been some kind of larger excess in Croatia that fans at the stadium are fighting or that someone can physically get hurt. And what you're saying is certainly a problem, but let's say football players who shout "for home ready" are heroes of both nations and authorities. And as long as the government doesn't change the HDZ towards the team and says it's not good, that kind of behavior will be acceptable in the stadium by then.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183033	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Chelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, you have overly politicized this topic. We're talking about preventing riots, I remember the time and SDP's government when SDP's ministers were also sitting in bars, I prefer to see parliamentary representatives and politicians among ordinary fans. So, the problem of politicizing sports is the problem that can be discussed and I will mention to you even though it's not a national sport, ice hockey, see what the Sisak mayor does that defends one club training in the newly opened sports hall. So much for that, so the problem of alcohol is 0.5, 0.8, 0.1, so it's a psychoactive substance, this isn't sucked out of a small finger. Disdaining police officers that they're going to do personal accounts, so you know why these tests are scheduled, this is a big step for the better. It is necessary to detect those psychopaths who encourage violence and should know that alcohol in people who do not have such a tendency to violence will not cause violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183035	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183036	Kola Celic, the politicisation of sports has been working with HDZ for 30 years in this country. And that's the theme, sport is deeply politicized in our country, it's highly politicized. Well, you remember those dr. Ivo Sanader, me and my brother too. Well, that, you're what's possible HDZ on sports has politicized and brought down to the lowest level in this country. Everything. And I'm not politicizing him. As far as these alcohol assessments are concerned, that's what the cops told me, I didn't make it up. The cops tell me, there's room for some colleagues to work and not generalize, and I'm sorry that you didn't hear my debate on behalf of the club, so you could hear what I'm talking about. I also have a personal experience of someone. Secondly, I don't have anything against parliamentary representatives or ministers in the vaults, but I have against those USKOK suspects and I have against members of the political parties in the executive boards of football clubs. It's no problem when you come to the game, you're not a threat to a fellow cellic when you're sitting in a box cheerleading, but some of you who have USKOK's indictments, I think they're giving a bad picture of all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183037	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183038	Your Honor, I'm in my opening speech on behalf of the club saying that for 30 years I've been in the stands and that I've never been detained, processed, but I can say that in some ways I've kept my mouth shut. So, I was at the Dinamo game – Istria, there were 500 of us in the stands, so the eastern tribune, so I didn't shout out, it was known that I was then in the Association "Together for Dinamo" that was fighting President Zdravko Mamić, and then the police brought me in and said that I was doing some illegal action because I didn't sit in my seat. You know who the minister of police was then? Mr. Ostojić, the repression at the time of Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183039	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183040	Yes, yes, the repression at the time of Minister Ostojić, but look, imagine what it will be like now when he can stop you in front of the house and push you there drager and the word of his colleague Sladolev is drinking what you're doing at home, yes, yes, I'm sure you're going to go to the game now I'm going to close you up right now. No, you weren't there, but you got out of the house, you had a glass of wine behind lunch and let's get a fart. So it's even more repression than it was back then. So, look, I don't know about that part of the case, I can take your word for it, and I believe you. I'm telling you the same thing, I don't know if you listened to my example on behalf of the club when a cop told me to throw a cigarette out of my hand I'm going to bring you in, then I said no, so he told me again because you weren't there, you're refusing a police order, so I introduced myself as a parliamentary representative, so he wanted to bring me in too, but he didn't, and he was suspended. It was the same for you at the time of Minister Ostojić. But I don't think Minister Ostojic is guilty of that part, it's the police's fault. And today is even worse. We talked about it, so this government lowers the criteria for getting into the police, now you can be a cop with high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183041	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183042	You say members of the fan groups are the first to go to the defense of the country, that's Zekanovic's mantra, a mantra quite dangerous. If they were the only ones we wouldn't have had 500,000 defenders, so the defenses went to those who weren't fans, but were never at any game, but that mantra gives rights to cheerleading groups because it protects them, it's a shield against them to do what they think they're doing because where we're going to go to the defenders. It's the same as with tenters, a group of tenters barricaded behind a gas bottle there, threatening to blow up half of Savska, to kill women and children if that's how they think of it, but it can't be against them when they're defenders. So let's watch out for these mantras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183043	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183044	My colleague Stazić, I don't glorify that data, I'm just saying one fact, the fans didn't go first, but they went among the first as well as the rest of Croatia. But why did I mention it? I mentioned this precisely for this reason, let's say in the stadium of Cantrida stands a monument there for the boys of Armada who gave their lives to the Croatian state, but I mentioned it precisely because they first started out of faith in the Croatian state, and then what did they welcome? These in Zagreb welcome Tudjman to tell them not to be called Club Dinamo but will be called Croatica, and we in Rijeka have welcomed that you can't be champion at all because Canjuga has to wear it up on its wings, shuts down 101 and these people have had a great disappointment as well as most Croatian citizens. And most of those who defended the Croatian state today are disappointed to see what HDZ is doing to that country. That's what I'm talking about, that's why it's important. And fans have shown that they can't be manipulated and that as much as HDZ is in clubs, they can't manipulate people who go to games.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183045	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of the Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183046	Thank you. Coli Djujic, you have noticed we are talking about a bill on preventing riots in sports competitions, and in fact more or less you and many other colleagues have talked about sanctioning,... about very harsh sanctioning not for causing riots, not for illegal behaviour but from the regulations provided for in this bill that a person can be sanctioned even though nothing illegal has done. Just by coming to the playground, as someone said, if there's 0.6 grams in a kilo of alcohol, although it hasn't done anything, no riot, no excess, no hooligan behavior, but it's enough by discretionary assessment to be subject to strict sanctions and practically up to 15,000 kuna or 30 days in prison. By discretionary judgment of a police officer who is not acceptable to that extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183047	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183048	I've repeated it several times like all my colleagues before me because I think it might be just that for me it's one of the most problematic provisions in this bill. I think it's the discretionary right of someone's judgment and later interpretation and I'm only thinking about the courts that should make judgments on that basis, I don't think that's good. And it's good to talk about it, and it's good to point that out, and I hope that the proposer will give it up until the second reading. But the same is the fact that the Law on Public Order and Peace today is not good in German marks because it's not good that you and I are guilty, for example. I hit you, you call the police, the police come to punish me 100 marks, punish you 100 marks, and you neither blame nor debt, and that's not good. And in this law the same thing, discretionary law, I'm saying there are honest police officers like that, but then certain exceptions can violate the whole picture of both the service and the police, and that should be prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183049	The next is the replica of the respected representative Clarina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you are, fellow Djujic, mentioning HNS as the roof institution of Croatian football, namely 90 million kunas of their budget and Shukera, Kustic, Kulisic and all others. So who controls this institution? So I think they just spent seven million kunas last year on intellectual services, I think that's the problem. How much of HNS cares about club football at all? How can fans not react negatively to that? The simple question is, absolutely, that I support the MUP, this bill that should punish those group fans who are criminal, where there are dealers and everything else that has been mentioned repeatedly. But I also call on this ministry, but also other ministries that are competent to finally clean that house of roof, the Croatian football house, which is the HNS that are state in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183051	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183052	I completely agree with you, colleague Klarin. So now, let's look at this mandate of Mr. Davor Schucker, they had a space there owned by the HNS, the first thing the brand did was cancel that space, rented a space in Green Gold. How much does HNS cost? The other thing is, I've already said sparrows on the branch know. 11 members of the 17 executive committee are members of the HDZ. And then we win this grand score at the World Cup, be second and then they pay themselves a fee of 200,000 kuna or how much or maybe even in the euro. What is the contribution please nice executive board of the Croatian Football Federation for the result of our team? So the larger contribution of those fans who have been taking loans to go to Moscow is to encourage our team, so they get a loan war after they have to pay off 2.3 years, and those who sit on the HDZ Executive Board get what 200,000 kuna or EUR I have no idea, but that 1,000 kuna is too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183053	The next individual debate was supposed to be co-workers of Zekanovic, and he does not have the right to speak, so the next individual will speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183054	Croatia is a sports nation, and if anything is agreed with by the people, and if it shows the people are united with our sports successes and of course it binds our fans along with the unity that the Croatian people must achieve, the sea is the most achieved through sports successes. We are aware of the arrival of our team, it was not so long ago, that it was a magnificent welcome of our representatives, half a million, millions of people, it was difficult to predict how many people had welcomed and how excited the Croatian people were to share that success. And when we look at that synergy, that's right, when we look at that synergy and look at what we want to emphasize and discuss then, there was no talk of violence. At these gatherings where there were fans, half a million people, young people mostly, and even older fans, I'm a Hajdukian, a Hajduk fan, a chacha took me as a little diet to Po man, I've always been a Torcida. But when I look, I've never felt that fans are a problem, fans are a culture. There are some problems among fans that can be easily solved, but I have not heard any more hate speech, for example. from a statement here in our assembly, our colleagues in the assembly, so it's more morbid than, here waving that secretary with some fan who had a hood on his head and it's a really bad message on it to a fan this kind of message that doesn't cause good, but it's waving. Well, worse is this statement from our fellow Stazic in May '45. It's a year's work that hasn't been done. Well, it hurts more than any of these messages from our young people you're going to lock up for two beers that drink. It's more hate and effect than that message. I have nothing against my colleagues, but more will cause a message of division than anything that happens in Croatia. It's a morbid, bad message, calling that the winners didn't finish the job, that they didn't kill these people what was left. How do you describe these messages? And the secretary, I'm sorry he's not here, waving a message at some cheerleader who was wearing a hoodie. So I'll wrap myself up in the Croatian flag, Father, and ban the flag a little more? This is where the bad messages come from, this is where the Tribba swim in front of, because when they make those statements, that UDBA didn't finish the job here, they're tripping around, here at the front door. That's why you I say once again that sport is what unites the Croatian people. [[Intruder: No dialogue.]] And in doing so, they showed young people and the answer and such statements and policies which, disastrous statements, which are more than bad statements. But we don't comment on it, because we're afraid to comment on it. It's the easiest thing to come and punish people now, so I think what this definition is, trying to get in, coming and staying. Who's going to explain to me what it is, that's what my colleagues and Sladolev asked and everyone asked. Try entering, coming and staying. So when I try and get in and out of the game, it means I'm staying. So can you explain that definition, attempt to enter, arrive and stay at the game? So you can come at any moment to the man, the young man who drinks possibly two beers not trying to stop this system from being the sponsors of all these matches, these competitions, just those who produce alcohol. He's a game commercial, you've seen before on TV, before the game of the world's biggest these and European competitions, either in football, or, are companies that produce alcohol. That's a fact. And all that, and all the anomalies of the triba solve, but you can't in this way, in the solemn lie side of those who have been protected from the system for years, have come down to the solemn lodge and you have finally allowed them to, the system has allowed them to enter another state. What's that message to that cheerleader he was waving around here with the picture of the esteemed secretary? The man who went down to the bar, as president of the club, gave him a system to run out, and these company boys who drink two beers, which I don't normally justify, alcohol doesn't want to promote, even though it's being promoted through sport. I find that disastrous. I'm going back to one of the ugliest scenes, I was at that game when it was swastika. So when she was a swastika, there was a sign on the Man which was disastrous. Can someone explain to me the reason why the person who did this has not been discovered so far? Well, that's amazing, with these techniques, the entrances to the stadium, which is why it's not explained, why we're carrying that scar? In Croatia, Uvik wants to get nazim, fascism and communism, what is condemned. To us, what's condemned is that the EU Declaration is a civilizational step to condemn all these totalitarian regimes, and not to throw it to the Croatian people, we're Ustashafi, we're fascists, we're Nazis, we're all, and in fact what the triba binds us to is, the triba binds us to sports, sports successes, successes that have united and synergy shows us that Croatian people can gather around something that's common, which is important and that our people love their homeland, but they don't like it with these statements that say they're in May '45. Tribal to kill this Croat what's left, that the winners didn't kill us enough. There are caves, throw us, what, it's morbid, it's bad messages, worse than all these fans, it's gonna be there among cheerleading fans, I know, I remember when I was 10, '82. is a group of cheerleaders who are closest to my heart next to my Torcida, it's malignancies of Sinski, who are tied to my son's alkar, who didn't have the same uniform, so he entered the finals of the Cup of the former Yugoslavia with Bosnia, then champion of Europe in '84. in Metkovic played at the game. My malignants, I see these people, they're icons to me, I'm like a 10-year-old boy. I went to these games, it connected us to Sinjana, the alkar, the Alkar Sinj basketball club, I am proud of my malignants today, we feel like the Mulligans in Sinj, no matter what I am, and I was at the games, but also these local groups bind young people, of course there are problems as well as in all the social layers and groups that are triangulated, but not to solve in a way that I was only proud to try to impose politicisation through those groups of fascists, they mention fascists, they are extremely patriotic, they are extremely patriotic, and I am proud of all the games where I was and Croatian national representations, particularly patriotic messages, mainly about the memories of the role of the homeland war where the iconography is fantastic, so there are other groups where I am proud of all the people who remember it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183055	Let the secretary go, you're not talking to the secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183056	You want to keep talking?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183057	Yeah? I'll tell you not to talk, not to talk to the secretary, but to talk to the public and you have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183058	So turn it off, please, that you won't be telling me and writing what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183059	You don't talk to the secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183060	Dear Secretary, when you represented here...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183061	Second warning for you because you don't talk to the secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183062	I've never heard this before. Now I have to be careful, you see what a colleague of mine is, I have to be careful how to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183063	Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183064	I have to be careful...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183065	Go ahead, talk to the voters, the public, the public, not the secretary, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183066	Yeah, yeah, you would, you would...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183067	Please speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183068	Here, here you'd be, here someone the most serious would be if we didn't exist at all...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183069	Here, you know...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183070	...that we're not here at all, to say that '45. ... Forbade your job, then you would allow it, but the one who represents the law, I have the right to ask the question, I have the right to ask the question to someone who is... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183071	You have no right to ask a question...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183072	...representing the law and I'm talking about the law...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183073	You have no right to ask the secretary's question, and you know what's next, you know what's coming, yes, please go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183074	Secretary of State, I don't think I'm a representative of the Ministry, a representative of the Ministry, you've kept a picture here that isn't the best. However, as you comment on people who say that in '45, and politicians, here and beg, beg the chairman to give me a warning, they beg to exclude me, and they said '45. It's not over, the winners aren't done, and we're chasing our fans, we're, we're stalking our fans, don't be nervous... Don't be nervous. Don't be nervous. Tell me. Our fans are not guilty of anything, it's those who call for violence, and side here [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] in the Assembly [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] and on which the alcotest will be tribald every time they enter. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183075	Thanks for the time. I have to apologize to you, Mr. Bull, which is, when I'm guilty, so you don't have to give me this warning, you said secretary, not secretary of state, so I thought you were arguing with my secretary. Thank you very much and I apologize, I apologize with all my heart I guess you'll be giving the Rules of Procedure a break, I guess that was, uh, there you go. [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183076	Anyway, Mr. Vice President, In 238, it doesn't matter which secretary it is, namely, you have now said that fellow Bulj must address his constituents, how do you know who your secretary is voting for, maybe it's Mr. Bulja's voters, I see the code, my fellow Bukarians of this on their eyes that he must vote for a colleague Bulja preferably down there, so it's not okay, it doesn't matter which secretary he is, he addresses voters, he goes to this individual approach, one to one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183077	There's no right to address the administration, and now it's a really hard heart, even though I appreciate your humor, I'm giving you a warning, okay. Let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go with the real replicas now, but I had to apologize to Mr. Bulju. Tell the Secretary of State, and it'll all be clear. No, no, no, no. [[Intruder: Are there any warnings left?]] does not remain a reminder, reminder has been withdrawn [[Intruder: Two warnings?]] She's retired, she's withdrawn, there's one before. Mr. Ice cream, Mr. Ice cream replica. [[/Intruder: Both?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague Bulj, you said how dangerous it is, as can be widely interpreted, so the law, and these amendments of the law are really focused on how they can certainly be interpreted, remains the fact that UEFA can also be widely interpreted by laws and that the game of Croatia's Iceland has withdrawn the transparency that fans have been doing for years by Mr. Stevanovic's initiative, it doesn't matter what it's called, which reads "Remember Vukovar", so the hate message was a sentence to them, remember Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183079	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183080	There were these terrible messages in an insult, mainly towards Vukovar, mostly by cheerleading groups that were on the other side, but at the time it didn't hurt so much those Chetnic movements that were still living in these areas and these clubs, but it hurt more the silence of our respective ministers and ministers and the government, silence on insults. So cheerleader groups, we can't say fans are guilty of everything, of course in these groups as well as in all the troublesome people, it's been done in all the social groups, there's always this problem. However, these messages led to this. I'm disappointed when someone says and calls hate speech to murder, to unfinished work from '45. If UDBA hadn't done its job, it's a terrible bad message, and we're trying to talk about it as much as we can and try not to send such things to our young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183081	Mr. Cellic is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. What you're talking about is more than 6% alcohol, 0.5% already exists in the law, so now it's just being introduced under the influence of drugs, and if a person doesn't want to be subjected to alcohol or drugs, it's a violation. So all of this so far exists in a law that was passed in 2003 and that had changed several. But you mentioned this, and it is very interesting, so for colleagues of Parliamentarians and advocates who commit verbal violence, physical violence is not exactly available, I think you should ask for amendments to the Rules of Procedure to subject those persons to alcohol or drugs testing, so if they have more than 0.5% alcohol or if they are positive for some illegal drugs to ban at least that day participation in the plenary assembly. So I'm wondering if you're up for such a proposal, do you agree with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183083	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183084	First of all, I'm going to say to this first part of your answer that 0.5% of the blood has been spilled if so far, yes, but it wasn't this kind of sanctions. We've got three times as many sanctions here, three, four times as in traffic when you're stopped by the police and ours. So on that side of the bride, I don't think that's gonna solve the problem. And the other problem is that I mentioned that sports competitions are very funded, i.e. they are sponsored by companies that produce alcohol and they are advertised on TV broadcasts and on stadiums. We're actually promoting alcohol, and we're punishing it here. And as for these morbid statements of calling for murder, to violence mainly by parliamentary deputies, I'm simply not going to comment on it if they're simply not worthy of any comment. The one who calls on it, who says that '45. The winner did not finish the job because anyone who says the marriage didn't kill enough Croats in immigration then speaks enough for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183085	Cell, please. Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183086	When I've been apostrophe ten times. They got together at Bleiburg. No, no, Bull, you collected losers II. [[/Intruder Radin: Who? Yeah?]] World War I got up, Churches, whites, Chetniks. The Ustashas tried to surrender to General Scott, and he told them you were the ribs that you fought after 9 May when the capitulation was signed, no laws or rules of war were applicable to you, there they were killed. And he told Colonel Basti who ran the Partisan troops, here's my tanks. Do whatever you want with them. Women and children were released immediately. The Ustashas were cut off, the brushes of the slaughterers, the whites of the slaughterers. I'm curious now, which of these groups of murderers are you personally representing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183087	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183088	With these statements from you, the winners finished the job in '45. If they had not killed without judgment all that they had tried to kill, you are the slayer who calls for slaughter, you are the one. You're the one who calls for a situation, I'm not behind anyone, I'm for the rule of law. All three regimes have been condemned and this is the Resolution of Europe clearly says, all totalitarian regimes of fascism, communism and Nazism and I think it is best. But making a statement looks like May '45. It's a year's work that hasn't been done. So you know what you say, you call for slaughter, to kill. It's the worst statement and the worst division and that's all fans say on sports grounds, morbid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183089	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183090	Well, I think it's very clear, yes, in itself, that, in 238, and Article 33, we're holding a session. My colleague called me a slayer, and if he doesn't deserve a warning, then I don't know what he deserves a warning from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183091	You called him a butcher? Just say yes or no. If you call him a slayer you'll get a warning, you have to say yes or no Did you call him a butcher? [[All I said was I'm behind it.]] Then by the article... Yes, yes, but I'll give you a warning before, because you called him a butcher. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I beg your pardon? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now I'm going to tell you the article... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll get that, just be calm. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On the basis of the article, this is the second, based on Article 240(1), I give you the reminder, that is the second. That, a reminder, just a reminder, not without, without, a word, you have a right to the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183092	Thank you very much. I would. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, 238. [[Intruder Radin: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] I'd just like to point out that a colleague... said which I support, whether the Chetniks, whether they stand up or do not know all that he has numbered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was just quoting that the slayer was the one who said that in May 45 the job wasn't done, that the winners didn't kill everyone without a trial. It's a butcher, so if he feels that way, I can't give him anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183093	Well, look, I'm just going to read you the Rules of Procedure now, and then let's move on, then I'm going to have to give Mr. Track the same word for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just so we're clear, I apologized before, so you realize that if I make a mistake, I'm wrong, but I didn't make a mistake here. During the debate, the representative must not talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion, talk about... etc., etc., belittle or insult the president or other representatives, and Mr. Stazić is other representatives, so that the general views here have always been a practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can condemn them, we can condemn them morally in any way, but if it's about general attitudes, there's no such thing here. There is another way to disrupt the order at the session, but he will only disrupt the session if you become nervous because I think, in another way, he will not disturb the session. So you only got the name and last name, you said yes. You gave such an epithet. Now we will give you, if necessary, and I would advise you not to need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183094	No, unfortunately it's necessary. Art. 33 holding a session. This is my colleague Bulju's 2nd notice on this agenda point, which means the second one, must be the same takeaway.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183095	No, there's another one, and then there's another one with taking away words. No, no, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183096	But while leading before you, whoever was running the session has already given fellow Bull a warning. He gave it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183097	No, the other one was wrong, so I pulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183098	No, but not you. Before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183099	Okay, but since you haven't mentioned a single article, I would have told you What's that? [[Employment Stazić: Article 33, it is the conduct of the session.]] All right, I'll now, I'll interrupt all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, all, all the injuries of the Rules of Procedure would ask you to sit down and move on with the debate, please. [[Intruding Stazic: 33rd, leading, president's authority.]] Please, nice. [[Intruder Stazić: But you are implementing the Rules of Procedure.]] Now it is, who is it? Replica, Clarine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll come back after 45th and I'll hurt the Rules of Procedure at the debate of my colleagues Bulja, and I'll say I don't even need to banalize my colleague Bulj, the situation with the fans. It's not all so black and white. We also have serious delinquents among fans, so if not, even criminals, I mean, it's a tough word but I'll dare say it today in parliament and should be supported, of course, parts of this law and should be at least because of those young families, young people, people who are really eager to love sports allow them to enjoy sports events normally. So what you're saying isn't all so black and white and this bill still has some, not yet, but some good sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183101	Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183102	A colleague of Clara's, yes, he does. First of all, criminals who are allowed to pour alcohol in streams are in solemn lodges. So, we try to start from them whether, whether it's unfair and unconstitutional in the solemn lodges to pour alcohol in streams and who knows what not, from drugs or who knows, that it is now to check, and cheerleading groups mean, to expose it as a special sect, to degrade it as, I think it's not fair, and of course I agree that the triba introduce order and that the police must, must act in accordance with the law and all those delinquent and those who, not delinquents, but those who repeat, dealers, criminals, should be found and isolated, but I am indeed proud fans and fans of the group, as I said to my Maligans from Sinj and Torcid. Or what happened about the team. They showed how we can all get around sports together without going to a broken glass. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183103	- Mrs. Crescent. Shots fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183104	Thank you. You may warn me, but I'd like to tell a colleague who's been commenting on women and children haven't been released before. Women and children were killed, as were the members of all these armies, mostly men, but women and children were killed in Kočevsky Rog and the Bad Jama, you have women inside and were found excavated. So, I welcome all the cheerleading groups and I'm sorry, so both Torcida and my Armada and the Cohort team from Osijek and what they call yours, Bad Blue Boys. So, we didn't respect them enough in making this bill. So the law was supposed to be drawn up, but to come together to the goal, which is to prevent disorder, but it can only be done by good communication. So both the police and the judiciary, and the ones most of all this law applies to. Which, in order for you to comment, therefore, would be the leap of those who were to be brought to the table to find him who would be a true intercessor on the other hand and try to get with them to [[Time, Mrs. O'Donnell. Shots fired.]] The better the law, the better the mess. [[/Intruder Radin: Time, time, time. Let's not.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183105	Yeah, let's not go back to the old, old, old, don't, don't, don't, don't, and you're at least a doctor. What are we gonna do with that? What are we gonna do with that? Here you go, answer me. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183106	We can, can, we have nothing to comment on people who said that in May without a verdict 45th work was not done until the end, therefore, it is a message enough, but I would return to this last question of yours why the fan groups were avoided because the fan groups as you have listed... BBB's, Armada and Cohorta, all these cheerleading groups and smaller and larger, to my Maligans of Sin, deserve to discuss this problem because it has now become a culture of both micro and smaller groups to the middle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it should be included, it should be minimal until the second reading, polite to invite all these cheerleading groups, their representatives, I think the motionary representative, the secretary of state should report it to the minister, to call and to try to solve this problem with the joint team. Talking to cheerleading groups was supposed to be the first. So the first step was to talk to the cheerleading groups and to bring this law into line with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183107	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Personally, I've been a fan for a very long time, and I know how long it's been talking to the fans, so it's not like there wasn't any conversation and I'm not going in about your other attitudes. ... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, well, yeah. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay, Mr. Totgergeli. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183108	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bull, I would refer to all the things in your debate. You mentioned that some of the provisions of this law would be good to apply here in the Parliament, and here I agree with you, especially when we look at world competitions, whenever someone performs some nonsense or does some disorder, the cameras all turn to the other side and never show that event and nobody transmits it. Here in the Parliament we have a very opposite situation, that when someone does stupid things and does circuses, then all the cameras are on him and that's the main news that's being transmitted. And secondly, you mentioned the welcome of our team in Zagreb, which was phenomenal, which has also been passed by many of the provisions of this law without any incident happening in Zagreb and of course that we are champions of the world because remember what happened in France, they won the championship and then eventually welcomed their team in the mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183109	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183110	Well, yes, Croatia is the champion of the world in sport, regardless, only that cheerleading experience and that, I am in agreement there, and that should be how synergy and association were created in sport, I think that this should be translated into other things and that it is possible, however, I was just talking about offensive messages, not offensive, but about messages that call for violence, which call for killings that these messages absolutely need to be condemned and that they came up now from fellow parliamentary representatives than from fan groups because the secretary of state just showed a picture of a fan who was masked, here. So we have... but that parliament as a parliament, in order to have to agree on everything, I do not say that we must agree but that we should condemn, maximum condemn people who call for violence and murder and a statement that '45. Sir, it's not a done deal, that the winners were supposed to kill everything they were supposed to kill, it's only about that person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183111	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mr. Robert Dolnjak is up now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183112	Thank you, Vice President. Look, I think in this debate there is a consensus of all of us in the Parliament that it is necessary to prevent the law from any form of illegal behaviour in sports competitions and any good provision in the law will be welcomed by all the clubs in this House. And that's not disputed, I think there's a consensus in all the debates I've been listening to. However, the discussions are about the other thing, in which way they actually find a balance between these repressive provisions in the law, the powers of police and those rights and the freedom of citizens who must remain regardless of the specific rights that police have to monitor in sports competitions and, of course, regarding the event of these competitions and the arrival of sports courts. In my opinion, there is a constitutional provision that states that any restriction of rights and freedom must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case, a provision of art. 16. The Constitution of the And I remember in 2009, when I was an outside member of the Constitution Committee, then the Parliament, I don't know if anyone might have been a representative at the time, discussed also the bill amending this law, they called it the Giurjin Law, I don't know by, Mrs. Durđi Adlesic, who was here in the Parliament or in the Government, I don't know anymore, at that time the bill envisaged a lot of rigorous measures to sanction all forms of disorder and misbehavior in sport competitions, and I remember this debate in the Committee on the Constitution that discussed it at the time, unfortunately did not discuss now that we have this law in the debate and our focus was precisely on provisions that significantly go into reducing the rights and freedoms of citizens and give quite a wide discretion to the police in the application of certain legal provisions. All these years, as far as the law is concerned, I believe that he has gained a good purpose, prevented a certain number of possible illegal behaviours, the fact is that we had this largely on Croatian sports grounds, perhaps most of all on football courts, and I have to say that there have been a lot of times when I have followed certain sporting events and unfortunately there have been excursions, outbursts, sanctions, and I know that I have often been like many among you concerned whether Croatia will be punished by UEFA or some football club harshly, rigorously not only financially but we have played in front of empty stands because of riots, hooligan outbursts, because of hate speech, is a fact that we cannot escape from. It's my impression that there's been a lot less of it lately, at least in these drastic forms, the impression may be cheating, I don't have statistics, you've been saying something about it, but I think that, yes, there's been a little less of it lately. I would like to draw your attention to certain provisions in this law that show that certain, certain changes that you are proposing now may be too broadly formulated, sufficiently undefined to lead to too rigorous behaviour of police officers towards persons who may or may not have actually committed any illegal, illegal action or behaviour in sports competitions. Part of these changes are not art. 25. The existing law, you do not have it in this material because it does not change, but it is very important, I will read to you what it says, so it says that the police have the authority of a person who declares himself or under the circumstances clearly goes to a sports competition, and with his behaviour it causes reasonable doubt that he is under the influence of alcohol or other or otherwise misbehaved, the police can determine his identity, review him, can subject him to the determination of the presence of alcohol in the body by measuring the quantity of alcohol by an appropriate measuring device, can remove him from the means of public transport, can prohibit him from coming to sports competition, art. The 25th law, therefore, has been in force for many years now, has given considerable authority to police officers, but it still says that, that it may not be a mere discretionary assessment, so the person should, by his behaviour, give reasonable doubt that he is under the influence of alcohol, drugs, etc., at least in some way trying to legally prevent any police officer from asking any person to submit an alcoholic, to bring him in, to prohibit him from entering a sports competition. We now propose these amendments to the law to the article. 4th i.e. Art. 2. by which you are changing Art. 4. that any attempt to enter, arrive and stay in the space of the sports facility, if the person is in an alcoholic state above 0.5 grams per kilogram or refusing to determine the presence of drugs and alcohol in the body followed by sanctions from 2 to 15,000,00 kn and up to 30 days in prison, respectively. It seems to me that this provision is actually collapsing with an art. 25, there is said that a police officer can do so when under the circumstances it is visible that a person goes to a sports competition if there is a reasonable doubt that he is in an alcoholic state, a police officer will not allow her to access the sports field, will not allow her to come to the competition and that there challenges any excess, any illegal behaviour, what actually this law should prevent. You actually made that provision in Art. 25. In fact, you're also preventing possible excess even though it gives certain broad powers to the police to assess whether this person is in an alcoholic state, but it also gives the possibility to subject that person to an alcoholic and prevents him from going to a sports competition and causing certain behavior that this law sanctions, but what you do in art. 2nd? You are actually the person who comes to the sports competition, who is trying to enter, and how may the colleagues have said maybe the person who had previously had a beer or two, may not even be listed from this provision as having to be in an alcoholic state, it does not even say that a police officer based on an assessment is authorized, so the established doubt that the person in the alcoholic state, even these words are not there, you are actually allowing the police officer to ask that person to submit to alcohol, and if it is determined that the person has more than 0.5 grams per kilogram of alcohol can be very severely sanctioned, up to 15,000,00 kn or 30 days in prison, that you will actually agree, you will not do anything, no excesss, no illegal behaviour, there is no way in which way I would have violated public order and peace, so the person who may want to drink beer or two, in any way, in any way, that in any way, no way, no exce has been allowed to go back to protect yourself, or to protect yourself. 25. you have a provision that is in a college that actually allows a police officer to undergo testing if he finds that there is a greater amount of alcohol than the law allowed, that person will not enter, you have the authority to prevent that person from entering a sports competition and that provision exists in law for years, so please consider these provisions until the second reading. Thank you. And thank you for these... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183113	Professor, I gave you 25 seconds more on purpose It's my fault because it's very interesting, and I'd like to ask you if you'd ask for an interpretation of whether this applies to the official entrance as well. [[And I thanked you.]] To ask whether such a procedure applies to and to the official entrance where distinguished guests come in, so it will be fun. Sir, you asked, yes. - Mrs. Crescent. Shots fired. I don't know did you understand what I said?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183114	Yeah, yeah, I answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183115	No, no, Mr. Dolnjak, did you understand what he said? ... To apply the same procedure to the official entrance to the stadium. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, replica. I said the line, the obstacle. You deafen slowly with time, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183116	Thank you. So what is going through, is whether many of the provisions of this law, colleague Podolnjak, are discriminatory, or discriminatory, fans from other categories. So, it's, of course it's a solemn lollipop, and we know there's gonna be alcohol there for sure. The only question is whether they'll be alcoholated. The question is how are we going to treat fans who will be free, so Armada, always gathers somewhere else except before Cantride now in some other place and before entering the game is being gathered in some other parts of the city. Whether it will already be possible for the police to act there or only on the access streets or on the official entrance to the stadium. So they will be discriminated against by some other citizens. How do we know who that's about? It's going to be one assessment. A single officer's assessment of whether or not [[Thank you. Thank you.]] whether or not to drink. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183117	Thank you. g response Mr. Downhill, here you go. [[Strenja raider: That's why I think it's a deeply discriminatory law against fans.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183118	Yes, unfortunately the law offers the possibility of very discreet behaviour of police officers and that's what's worrying because the fact, you can never legally specify the terminology until the end, but the law says, if according to the circumstances of a person obviously to a sports competition. You know how you'll interpret it if under the circumstances, you know what my professor said. My friend and I are going, we're going, we're going to Maksimir's zoo, and the police think we're going to the football field, and maybe we're drinking two gemists and we're acting a little cheerfully, that's what he said 11 years ago, I remember. The Constitution Committee. So, under the circumstances, the police will conclude that they're going to a football game, not they're going to the zoo. Therefore, you cannot establish this, this legal provision does not offer a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183119	If I understand correctly, Smerdel and his friend went to the zoo 11 years ago. Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183120	Thank you. Well, dear colleague Podolnjak, we have three variables here. So one is sports fans, the other is alcohol use and the third is violent behavior. I agree with you in this part of the article. 3th century 1st subst. 3., so where the illegal behaviour is already detected, if 0.5 has been detected, so I don't know why that opinion was brought, so we're talking to 1.5 proms, so the drunkenness is only 1.5 promiscuous, and that's where we should see, maybe ask the opinion of the expert society for alcoholism because it's not like driving a motor vehicle, so influence on psychophysical abilities, so fans are one subculture, there's so-called. The Rolligans, therefore, are fans who follow the Danish football team, they like a lot to drink, but there's never been any violence. So the ratio of alcohol and violent behavior isn't linear and we need to see if this is real, if the person is calm, she didn't do anything, 0.5, it might seem to me too little after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183121	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183122	Thank you. So I think we could all agree on that, that you're clean, since the law also allows you to go in with a beer to the stadium, so with an alcoholic drink less than 6, whether it's a percentage of alcohol and you can even have some sports competitions and drink a beer at those stadiums that aren't high-risk, I know about me, in my town when I'm in the stadium, there's a free drink of beer and there's never been any excess. I remember in 2009 there was a provision in the bill that, not 0.5 grams per kilogram, but 0.8, 2009, I checked the bill. Why did that line go down, I don't know, but anyway, I say. A provision on a certain degree of alcoholisation would have to go along with some, some illegal behaviour, any excess that this law sanctions, that this would be connected and that it should not then... sanction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183123	Thank you. And now, Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183124	Thank you, Mr. President. So, in an individual debate, I'm going to bring out what I didn't get on behalf of the club. So I'm going to look back at the debates and some other parliamentary representatives and the secretary of state, and I don't think we really needed these provisions. Especially since there was no agreement with the cheerleading groups. So we really have information, I'm in touch with them, they've filed objections in the e-Advise, so the arguments that were rejected have not been argued. They held the stands, in the stands of the city of Zagreb there was one tribune around these changes. The stands were not attended by fans themselves but were also attended by professors from the Faculty of Law and Sociologists and the ministry staff were invited and they did not respond, but I say they are not giving up and there will be a new stands where this will also be this invited staff of the ministry, I really believe that this dialogue will be established on, to, to, to, to the satisfaction of a better law. So this is where you keep mentioning these so-called. 0.5 promiscation, but so to speak, Mr. Curaj mentioned it, so these are not changes to this law, these 0.5 proms have existed since 2011, they have been voted together by HDZ and SDP and this, so that we and that we want to change what Collic said to put to 0.8, we can't because we can only change the changes concerning this law, so what's new is this coming, so it's a controversial, coming and that it's going to criminally punish this rejection of alcohol. So I have to say out of practice, but I'd like to ask the secretary of state that no fan, football fan, who refuses the alcotest, and so far he could refuse the alcotest, can't enter the sports field if he refuses, so you know when we go to the game in Split, so they stop us in the Longfield and they ask if you're going to blow or not, those who want to smoke this smoke so I don't know 0.7 of the promiscuous, they're actually being punished, and people who don't want to smoke, they stay in the Longfield and they're there, so they don't get into the sports field, so they shouldn't have been there anyway, because they're not present if they refuse this one, I've made a little effort, so I wanted to compare the European laws, so other countries that are similar to us, here and here as to drink. In Italy, therefore, local administration and police decide whether to pour alcohol in the stadium or the surrounding area, there is no control of the prominence, nor any restriction if there is no violation, so I was at the game in Milan now that he played Dinamo this Atalanta and in this square di cathedral, on all those kiosks was banned, so alcohol, but it could be bought in stores, but therefore this kiosks did not. Sweden, otherwise, would like to break through this debate some myths about countries and here is constantly mentioned, somehow the impression is that our fans are the worst one in Europe and the bauk of this hooliganism is circulating, but the statistical indicators are quite different, so in one pied Sweden there have been cases of deaths, so in one, and therefore in Scandinavian countries, we are fortunately not so far killed, the only one who has died is one player in Zadar, but this is because of the bad infrastructure, which is why he banged his head against the wall and it's strange that we haven't changed the laws in that direction. So in Sweden, alcohol is poured up to 3.5% of the stadium, so the directors have the right to escort you from the stadium if you're drunk, there's no punishment just to let you go to the stadium, such practice also applies to restaurants, cafes, clubs, so there's no control of the gap. As for the masking, so Italy's wearing whatever you want, so if you get caught in a misdemeanor, then you're screwed. Sweden, you can't disguise yourself in the stadium, but there's no ban on possession of the masking object. So, these are some experiences, so countries which, therefore, have experience with fans and what's main, and I believe that the promoter this one saw where he was really wrong about being more precise about making riots in the stadium or not, because we've now had this agenda from the secretary of state and here he mentioned the example of Slovak fans, they were, they were all drunk, but they were both benevolent and normal that we wouldn't punish them, but the law doesn't say, so there's an English law, so there's this provision... So it's innumerable, and that's where it should be distinguished, that's the code I don't know the MUP says we're going to, we're not going to punish drunk people who drive cars if they're not on the road, so the law here has to be clear, so we're going to punish only those we see their car leaving in the wrong direction because they're in danger of traffic, and those who are drunk and who drive straight, we're not going to punish them, so one law here has to be very clear because we know who said they don't need to keep this law drunk, so we shouldn't go in this direction. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I really believe that this debate has contributed to this improvement of the law, some things will not change, here are read data that are not credible, read data police, not judicial, it should be distinguished. If, therefore, the police applied provisions for not sitting in their place or drinking three beers, it cannot fall into the same brand as this fight, it is also known that statistics are therefore not always credible and it is not necessary to handle certain data, but rather as regards judicial bodies. And what is more, one that I still think no one has pointed out that in these provisions of the law there is so that the judicial authorities will have to decide within 8 days as to the sentence of the ban on the games, and now I'm asking the question whether any other items of domestic violence will be involved in traffic, whether all of them will be lag behind so that the courts can impose a penalty of one year or two years, and yet I say, I need to think about that, because that's why our police resources are being spent, so my friend can't have a ban on the game, gets a ban because he's had more than 0.5, gets a year and a half ban, and he has to report when Dinamo plays in Kurilovac a friendly game, which has no risk connection, so he has to leave his job and if he's not in a place of residence, then the police go check where he is. It's a waste of police resources, especially when we have so many problems at the border and I think we need it. So the English have a restraining order of 2 km around the stadium, they have cameras that recognize the faces, if that relapser is recorded, he will be punished by a high legal penalty and should really learn from the countries that solved it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183125	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a shooting, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183126	Thank you. Comrade Sladolev, we know that you are a fierce fan and a member of the BBB and I am pleased that from that point of view you point out that even among the BBB there may be someone who might have been an accomplice. I'm not saying that you're the one with whom you should be, just from your point of view and the parliamentary representative, you can analyze it like this, but again I'm talking about using cheerleading groups to get as good a law as possible. In this way we actually have some provisions that will happen as in many other laws, they are so rigorous that in the end they will not be respected. So we're going to have a situation here that someone will have more than 0.5% who will therefore agree to alcohol abuse and in fact did not commit any major offense other than drinking those two beers, he will be punished or the police will knowingly go over it and will not comply with the law and we have led to it as in many other laws, that the law will not be respected. I'm always against free judgment, free judgment of someone who'll be at the front door watching someone behave. Someone's high-end and can... He can drink a lot more. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And they won't show their behavior in fact [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Show him he's drunk. [[I'm sorry, they're right, they have.../]] How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183127	- Mrs. Crescent. Sneezing, I'm giving myself a warning. I'm giving myself a warning. Go ahead, answer it. ... I'm gonna give myself another one, I'm losing my right to talk, we're all going home. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183128	Thank you. So, respected Strenja MPs, you're absolutely right, among fans there are lawyers, doctors, doctors who have never had a criminal report, who are interested and who are referred to modern cheerleading trends and I'm really sorry, they really had a good will. For example. So the cheerleading trends have changed, so modern hooligan groups, they're actually forbidden to drink alcohol in participation and fighting. So when Fenrencvaroša fans came to Zagreb, so they got strict use, a ban on alcohol, you don't go on a trip to Zagreb, you go to a city that has dangerous fans, there's no alcohol in it. So they're actually, so it's completely changed but it's not the same anymore. Here's Mr. Radin's fans, he knows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183129	Thank you. Mr. Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183130	Yes, I hope that, between the two readings, this law will see significant changes especially in these provisions that we point to and around this alleged and degree of alcoholism, and I hope that the general use of alcohol in sport competitions will take place because, in my view, we seem hypocritical. On the one hand we allow the entry of alcohol, we allow alcohol consumption in sports competitions, so you can buy it and that's all allowed but at some point if you happen to have over 0.5%, followed by a very sharp sanction. Not to mention those parts where you were talking about the lodges, where you don't drink beer, you drink other alcohol, where there's absolutely no sanctions, and that's actually what we need to properly bring into line that we don't actually do contradictory provisions. On the one hand, alcohol that, on the other hand 0.5, sanctions etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183131	Time. Thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183132	Dear colleague Podolnjak, here's an example. So they're the most banignant fans of the team, those fans who consume the most alcohol, which is Scots and Irish. So they're known in the cheerleading world as cheerleading, and they're known for drinking alcohol. I don't promote alcohol here, but I want to bring you into a relationship that alcohol has nothing to do with hooliganism. In Vienna, my friends send me, Mr. Cellic was at the game, so there was a beer in the plastic cups and they have one great provision that if you return the plastic glass, give you back 50 cents and there's no trash in the hall at all and so in such directions we have to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183133	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183134	Thank you very much. A colleague of Sladolev, one of the messages that today must come out of this debate regardless of what you say and part of your colleagues points out that alcohol is harmful. So he can't get a message out of a conference about this discussion that alcohol doesn't hurt. Alcohol destroys society, and in no way should it justify drinking alcohol. It is equally necessary to make sure that this law does not turn into the 0.5 law, that according to this story that is now dominated by the 0.5 - day assembly, all other problems are actually overshadowed. I therefore hope that, between the two readings, the Secretary of State will prepare a text with its associates that will not cause this much debate on the topic that is not really crucial, these 0.5 stories do not solve anything. Hooligans who prepare hooligans in stadiums, at football, sports events, do so in a completely sober state, and I think it's important to prevent hooligans from falling out on stadiums regardless of these 0.5 proms that aren't really key.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183135	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183136	Thank you. So that Mr. Jovanovic, so I see that some hypocrite, I agree that alcohol is harmful and that alcohol is a big problem in a society that destroys a family, and on the other hand you have sponsors of the Croatian football team, you have an industry behind it, you have a fan zone, you have this message of champagne, and then you have to be consistent with all that. So this message that we're sending today is certainly not that alcohol is healthy, but that it is not the cause of the problem of fans and hooliganism, which actually shows statistics and new trends in the cheerleading world.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183137	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183138	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I fully understand the intensity of your law and I support that intensity if you do not completely prevent what at least reduce riots in sports competitions. But I think you're trying to solve this problem, and that problem exists and it's not tiny, you're going in the wrong direction or else I'm saying you chose the wrong tool. You want to overdrink the board and you've taken the trigger for it, but you can't drink the plank with a shaker you have to take the saw to overdrink the board. You're trying to cure cancer with a camel, and a camel doesn't hurt, it's good to drink a camel, but it won't cure cancer, and violence, riots on sports grounds are a serious disease of our society, a very serious disease. You're trying to do this by banning identity overlaps, banning alcohol consumption, banning drug consumption. Well, look, all these three measures are good, no one can have anything against any of these measures, but unfortunately they won't solve the problem. When we talk about riots in stadiums, then there are two aspects, typical, classical hooliganism and hate speech, or racism, public racism. Now when it comes to hooliganism, why won't you handle the ban, I don't know, alcohol like your colleague Jovanovic said? They don't need alcohol, they're going to sweat both sober and drunk, so they don't care. Namely, they didn't even come to the game because of the game, they came up fighting, that's their only goal. They say there's some colleagues, these fans, so they're the biggest patriots, so what's patriotic about beating up another guy's ass, what's patriotic about breaking somebody's car, breaking up windows like on crystal night? What's with the patriotism? I don't understand that patriotism. So maybe the right tool would be to call things a real name first, they're not fans, they're hooligans. Fans are fans on one side, hooligans on the other, so let's deal with hooligans like hooligans, whether it's in the stadium, whether it's in some folk club, whether it's on the road where a group of hooligans can go and harass people. Let us introduce this into the Penal Code, Infringement Law, or pass a special law on the prevention of hooliganism, and it will be applied to everything because this is how the concepts are confused. Cheerleading groups, fan groups exist only in football, I don't know if there are any other sports and we're always talking with these fan groups, we're constantly negotiating today, I think colleague Strenja is saying that the law with them worked he'd be much better. As much as you work with them, the problem doesn't go away, hooliganism is present. Then let's find out, let's look facts in the eye, in which sports. Have you ever seen riots in a tennis match in a table tennis match in a water polo? Bud, but you know who in water polo makes, these guys who come to the football stadium, that's the same group, that's gangs, that's gangs and they're supposed to call them that, they're not fans or cheerleader groups, they're criminal gangs with which they shouldn't have mercy in conversation. Ice hockey, so it's the most sporty of all sports, so that's where he cheers for the opposing club if he performs a good action, so that's where he claps at his club when he loses, and that's sports. You get and lose in sports. We are hypocritical, our football team when we win second place we make a big solemn welcome, when after 15 days he loses with 5-0 no one even looks at them. Well, it would be a sport for me to make them the same welcome because they're a team, and when they do and when they lose, it's a sport, it's a sport, and it's the sense of sport, and it's the only way we can raise young people, so they understand sport. How do you deal with hooligans? England made the most of it, they increased the drastic penalty of both fines and prisons, but they made the third measure, which is best of all, once registered such a hooligan who makes incidents for life can't come to a game anywhere in England, not that he can't come to the game, but must report to the police station. You know how much? For life. They're old now, that law was passed during Margaret Thatcher, they're old people, so they don't even think about sports anymore, let alone hooliganism. They have to report to the station today and can be held for 24 hours there. Well, their grandkids, their kids, they don't think of causing some kind of mess when they see that they're gonna have to report to the station for life whenever there's a game in their town. So, we have, we have, we have, we have, we have some instruments, we have to choose these instruments, and we need to know who our enemy is, we're not enemies fans of sports, we're enemies of the hooligan gang. Now why does it always relate to football, it's interesting, it's, it might be interesting to sociologists, psychologists, maybe psychiatrists, why other sports don't have it, just with football, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know the explanation, it comes to me that this HNS is tightly connected to HDZ, HDZ to them government, and we've seen the behavior there, they control the entire HNS, and we've seen the level of it, so they can't choose the president without the worst insults between themselves, and you're not gonna be a robber, so they're just not fighting. You know why? Because there's money, there's money there, there's huge money in that sport, so there's no money in, in, in, in table tennis, and that's why HDZ put his paw on HNS, so just for the sake of money, to be their sponsors, to have the president organize a birthday party, to finance them, so. And sport is, especially football is deeply politicised, so there's no other sport that's so politicized as football, so let's do something to break it up, and it can only interrupt practice, that there, that any party today HDZ, tomorrow any, take away from sports, that, so we don't let that control, then we'll do something, then we'll be effective, so unfortunately I think we can play like this, we can try in good faith, and in good faith, there's me agreeing with you, all that can help is good, but the real problem we won't solve in this way and we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183139	Mr. Djujic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183140	Dear Stazic, you have well noticed that the HDZ government of HNS one and the other is this, this is an accurate finding of this, and this is a kind of problem for the Republic of Croatia today, and you have also noticed that the problem with this law will not be resolved and that the settlement from the stadium has moved to the vicinity of the stadium, so what I was saying in, on several occasions today, so the conflicts are happening at gas stations, the fighting is organised, and that is true, there is no alcohol, there is, there is, sober do like my colleague Jovanovic said, sober do conflicts and fights, and it is also amazing for me that the police can not only detect police, but also SOA, the Security Intelligence Agency that can't know who they are and who these criminals are and who are involved in the fan groups, and then they agree and are threatening to be a more secure citizen today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183141	Mr. Stazic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183142	I'm convinced that the police can and the police have that information without the SOA, so today the cameras are placed everywhere, so it's no problem to spot someone and detect and now it's just a matter of will, how you're going to treat it, you want to pretend silly and let them, to repeat their work or bring the law, and you tell them nicely you come to the police station and you won't be, you're not going anywhere, you're not going to any more games, and then we'd do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183143	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183144	Thank you very much. So each problem that exists in society is solved in two directions, one is repression, the other is prevention. The repression in our country says, so if you get parole for dealing a kilo of cocaine, if you get parole for beating your wife, then it's hard to expect it to be a message of repression that will be preventive, and the aim is to prevent violence from happening at all. Therefore, with the law that we are discussing today and which I hope will be better and better quality should be clear, penalties must be maximum, there are no easy circumstances for violence, for hooligans who bring unrest to families who come to stadiums with their children should be the most possible penalties, and through education for civil society, through education and education in clubs should create new generations that will be against any violence on sports grounds at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183145	Mr. Stazic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183146	You're right, you're a colleague of Jovanovic, and don't mind me saying in response to your replica something I forgot to say in the main debate, as well as what you said before. It's a complete ban on alcohol. Right on that hockey, right on that hockey player fans and one team drink beer, they're there to find beer, to join, yes, the ban on, on stadiums, it means the vip, but now you're going to ban on, on, on this skiing to ban the cooked wine or in the vip, so I think we're coming to absurd, we're coming to absurd, we can't handle things like that, we need to get a little more sensitive, we need to, we need to look at it a little bit better, we don't propagate anyone drinking alcohol on, on sports grounds, no, but there are situations where you can't avoid it because you're becoming stupid, so I apologize to my colleague Jovanovic that this wasn't an answer to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183147	Thank you, and now it's Mr. Stjepan's Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183148	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries and associates, today a good part of the time we're talking about broader topics, I'm just going to list what the proposal for these legislative changes and additions is, 4 are actually things, 4 sentences we've been discussing here for hours, we're not really discussing them, we're discussing the whole problem and the fact that it's enough to change, whether it's going to solve the problems or not, 8-9. is already a law in force, I don't already know how many mandates the government, from the Most, from the SDP, has now joined the HDZ for some root change or for a reason because it is believed to be good or no one knew how to regulate it differently. So, four things are first of all that a violation is a person who comes to a sports competition under the influence of drugs, so far it's just alcohol. The second is that criminal liability is determined if someone refuses to undergo an alcoholisation study, so far it has not been. Thirdly, I find it a bit absurd, not enough perhaps a regulated change is she that a person is in violation if there is, and goes to a sports competition, and has an object with him intended to conceal identity and then only in explanation are they listed exactly what is thought, and here is talking more or less about who knows what and that is also determined by the violation and calling and encouraging participation in a fight or attack on other viewers, directors, etc., etc. The destruction of parts of sports facilities. Here, these are the four changes that we're supposed to discuss here today, which were the cause of these changes. Of course we do, and we can talk about the whole problem. I have also said as a proposal or as a first reading, I hope that it will be appreciated to go into one such, not a general part of the definition, and speaking of the differences under which someone might be considered drunk or not, whether under the influence of alcohol or not, because it is not the same as we heard, nor driving, driving a motor vehicle or moving as a pedestrian or a fan. It shouldn't be the same, and it's actually because the idea that alcoholism should be an additional burdensome circumstance in the course of certain violations, illegal acts or do not give God criminal acts. It means that before the game, someone met with a team at a bar, they were happy, they cheered, they drank a few drinks, and they were so happy going to a competition, it can't be a legal basis for them to answer, and I understand the applicant's intensity that he didn't, it says in the explanation, we heard, but legally you can't see it. We have to legally define it because de facto someone can abuse it. Anything can happen and someone can single someone out for some reason, put aside, irrelevant. For whatever reason, he has a legal foothold. You're going to the game, you're drinking, here's your alcoholicry, come on out, there's nothing a man has to do, he's got a legal basis to take someone away from the side and punish them later. I mean, he's going after the punishment later. Now, that's the problem. Which we always have to do that part, we don't see a tree of wood or wood forest. So, we have to try to find a better way of selective approach how to single out those really who should be severely punished, who throw an ugly picture at all those who want to normally cheer, fight for representation, for their clubs or whatever, or enjoy only that sport competition perhaps without some cheers but just like any other sports and cultural, etc. That's supposed to be the goal, but then I'm gonna punish you pretty hard. If they didn't think of it, we couldn't bring to this House anywhere else in the world a law against fools. It doesn't exist. As much as anyone would like to, you can't explain to someone what it is. But there's a way we can get as close as we can to that. Recidivists, those who re-interrupt order or make a mess or damage, participate in fights, all those incidents of cheerleaders we already have and we all know them. No, you said a colleague, not even close, but under criminal responsibility. Not that the whole state has to be ashamed of a few of those who encourage it. And that's where the alcohol cooks, yeah, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... But then take it as a difficult circumstance as such when challenged, and not put it into the law that applies to everything because de facto I'm not, I can't remember now whether in these solemn lodges or not, it's champagne or some wine, but I'm sure it's, I haven't been very much, a vindictor of such things, I'm going to these standard stands anymore, but it's also de facto leading to such absurdity. Are we, which is, we're not talking about something here right now that it shouldn't be, that you have guests and leaders of other clubs coming, etc., where the opposite officials and these clubs are being hosted, and now we're going to, what? Have double criteria. It sucks. Unnecessarily, absolutely, it should be known that if someone makes a problem, if someone has made an incident, a misdemeanor, all, then if alcoholation is still determined further, or if they increase the really limit to 1.5 to how much medically they determine so that you say it could be excluded, and that absurde is greater as... You can pour beer in the stadium today, you can drink beer and even in the stands because we don't have that infrastructure to allow it to be consumed somewhere outside the stands because our stadiums practically have stairs and stands and they don't really have some room for socializing as elsewhere, until we get to these infrastructure conditions, unfortunately it will be that way and that's how it's defined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just like wearing some, something that's for hiding, it can be anything, and maybe it's nothing. It could be an ordinary shirt that you can cover your head with and everything, you can lift a collar and put it up your nose and what do we do now? People walk around naked. I mean, we won't, of course, it's absurd, but by law it turns out to be. What can all be used to conceal? So I can pull this up and here, I'm masked now. What about the coloring ones? What do we do with them? Ishar's face and he's covered up now, de facto it's a little harder to know if someone's you... So I'm just saying that because of some absurdity in the law because I realize it's not an intensity, but it has to be in the law, it can't be this colorectal or what would be said in practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law is the law, the law is clear black and white, it can't be gray, at least I know the letter of the law shouldn't be, and what's happening in practice, it's also the day we're being witnessed, so here I'd be praying just to try to find those means to go into stricter, much stricter punishment, even at the Penal Code to intervene for those who are determined by any violation of the law, infrequent or any other, and that ordinary people like this go, if it means that it doesn't mean that they can't, don't have to look at them like this, or that they're afraid of someone looking at someone, so that someone will turn them off, etc., and actually use it's the letter of the law, that we don't want to be able to have to have any more than that kind of alcohol, and so much more fun, so we don't want to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do that much more, to be able to do so much more than just to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do the same to do the same thing, to do the same thing, to do the same thing, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do, to do the right to do, to do to do to do, to make to do, to do to do, to do the right or to do to do to do the right or to do to do, to do the right or to make the right or to do the right or to make the right or to do the right to do the right or to do the right or to do the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right or
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183149	Thank you, Mr. Djujic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183150	Comrade Curaj, I agree with you about this, your proposal, basically a proposal for everyone here today to write even more in detail, to standardize certain situations that might arise from this law, and I think that this is very important, means when it comes to fighting and this coming and leaving the stadium to be a little bit more detailed, that some absurdities that can be thrown out of these regulations, but once again I want to stress that perhaps until another reading should emphasize that prevention and that preventive part through the law itself, through perhaps more concrete, more concrete measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183151	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183152	I thank you, thank you, for thinking that this is a consensus in general, and that absolutely and all of us are actually going with the same goals, it's good to discuss this, what will eventually come out of this whole thing, and what I'm sorry for, I don't know, whether it can go further and deeper, maybe into some changes, but surely that itself and the intensity of the promoters and of all of us here that we've proposed and exposed today is, going in the same direction, with the same goal, that's preventing violence, reducing such circumstances, and actually making that sport competition as a single event in which we're all really going to be proud when our club, our team or anything else achieves a result, or at least a good competition, this all the other, all the abuses and seeking a hole in the law, we have to predict, and we need to make it clear and loudly say this cannot, even if people end in prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183153	Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183154	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleague Curaj, today he is deliberately through the debate trying to impose that this law is somehow against fans, which, of course, is not true. First, it was well-determined that we should separate what fans are, and what hooligans are, that's true, these hooligans are much less or insignificantly little than the real fans and the other thing that's trying to get through here, which is that in fact this bill prohibits practically alcohol in stadiums, almost going in this direction with debates. Of course, the law has been in force for years and has defined that we must not be alcoholized in stadiums, but each of us has come, especially now how we have a little more of these European games where there are a lot of fans at the stadium, there are 100, 200, 300 cops there and no one. doesn't apply any stupid repressive methods against us even though we've been drinking. [[Intruder: Time]] One, two or three beers. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183155	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183156	May I? I didn't hear. Thank you. Dear colleague, you've now reminded me, you're actually saying no one's against fans or that there's someone against fans, that there's someone against alcohol in the stadium, so finally, I've heard that there's someone against HNS, or even one and the other, everyone's saying what's hurting him, and we and what you've said, we already have that law in force 8-9. and 99.9% of their provisions were not applied, but that doesn't mean that we still need to have such provisions in the law, but actually means that we need to strengthen them and direct them to those who really deserve it, which is really a large, large minority compared to those who want to come, I think that would also increase the actual presence or attendance of all the events and, and sports in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183157	Thank you very much, now final, finish five minutes in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Sasa Djujic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Sabina and colleagues, in the name of the SDP Club, once again, we would like to call upon you today, Mr. Katić, that the second reading, here you can see that, in essence, these remarks that we have virtually all the opposition representatives are the same, so this is what we agree that it may be controversial and that the second reading can fix it, so it's not a problem for us about alcohol, it's not a problem, it's not a ban on alcohol now, but it's the possibility of the police being able to accidentally drink to anyone at their own discretion, any police officer in the stadium, so it stabs you and says you're the one, and now you're suspicious that I're coming to you and without any reason, that you've done any kind of mess. So we think it's not good, and that part needs to be more detailed, or that it should be sanctioned by those who, under the influence of alcohol, create some kind of problem, cause a fight or do violence or anything like that. We believe that there is a need to put emphasis in the criminal sense on the relapsers, on those who repeat those acts. So we also believe in SDP that this part of fans and hooligans should be separated because most fans are what the name says, fans, and this loud minority are hooligans who send these ugly scenes to the public when they fight at gas stations or highways or some agreed battlefields, and there police should give a complete effort to contain it and there should strengthen the fines to the maximum extent possible. So those who get caught in such an act and repeat some acts should be severely sanctioned. The other thing is also we have advocated in fact that fighting is back into this law as a violation because under this current Law on Disrupting Public Order and Peace were essentially tied hands and people couldn't act and we think it's a good thing to return, but only this part to prescribe even more detail. We also want to put emphasis on prevention. So, this should be strengthened, and I appeal to you again, so your colleagues from the MUP who are dealing with these issues have told me that for 10 years at the Ministry Ministry of State you have a systematic job for fans, that there are no administrations and that there is no such thing as a lack of it, because what you said in terms of public order and peace, and that's a broad term, there are then at here, in my area the masquerade parties are now going on, so the police who are monitoring the work of fans are doing and that part. He works in catering facilities, Saturdays, Sundays, dating, so it's a wide area, and we think that this area, therefore, requires the systematization of that part again, as has the criminal police, therefore, employees of economic crime, for narcotics, etc., that in this department police dealing with this problem should be at the level of the management of persons who specialize in this particular section and then through education, lectures are being counterproductive to fans and that they are essentially trying to work together to prevent violence. The second thing, too, is that little this coming, stay at the stadium more precisely defined or that you might at least try to explain a little bit better what you meant by that and what goes into that part. So how about for example. There seemed to be some kind of police officer’s conduct on these articles. The other thing, we should stress absolutely that in this law we support and that it is a good introduction of drug testing, we think that it is a big problem and that it is a good thing that it is now entering this law and that this provision is good as regards courts, so within 8 days or so, they have to react explicitly by these violations and they are a good thing. Unfortunately, these two things aren't enough for us to support the law in our first reading as it looks, so I said more of these negative things and we hope that by the second reading you'll fix it. In any case, we handed over our SDP law proposal to prevent riots in sports competitions, so here, I expect you to look at it also a little bit in the ministry and maybe get some solutions out of there, but if you respect these, most of these remarks, then, until the second reading, you would think eventually and support the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183159	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183160	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, First Reading, P.Z. 803, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions and other all objections and proposals will be adopted to submit to the Proposer to consider the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 2 abstentions and 37 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183161	We now move on to: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the gas market, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 824; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Ivan Milatić, who will have, I suppose, an introductory word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183162	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. You have before you the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act. Subject law is in line with EU Directive 2019/692 of the EU Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2009/73 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas adopted on 17 April 2019 by the Law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market aims to respond to obstacles to completion of the internal natural gas market resulting from the remainder of the application of EU market rules to transport pipelines leading to and from third countries. The amendments and additions to this law seek to ensure that the rules are applicable to transport pipelines linking two or more Member States within the EU and to transport pipelines leading to and outside third countries. In this way, the consistency of the legal framework within the EU is achieved and at the same time avoids distortion of competition in the EU internal energy market, as well as potential negative effects on security of supply. Furthermore, this law increases transparency and provides legal certainty for market participants, particularly investors in gas infrastructure and users of the system as regards the legal regime applicable. The transitional and final provisions of the proposed law also determine the obligation of the gas storage system operator in the area of distribution of storage facilities, suppliers in the public service obligation. In particular, the rules on the use of the gas storage system provided by the gas storage system operator must be based on the provisions of this law to implement the distribution of storage facilities before 1 March 2020 and to inform suppliers of the results of the public service obligation as well as the terms of the contract and the means of transfer of the right to contract storage services. This avoids legal uncertainty and uncertainty regarding the way storage facilities are purchased by public service obligations suppliers in the next storage year, and all for the purpose of security of gas supply in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183163	Thank you, too. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Miro Totgergeli in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183164	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister with Associates, honourable parliamentary deputies no longer have a colleague here, so today we are discussing amendments to the Gas Market Act which was discussed and adopted in this Croatian Parliament in February 2018 and entered into force on 3 March that same year. What did we have in 2018? So, at that time, we approached the creation of a new law because it was necessary to bring our legislation in line with the provisions of Directive 73 of 2009 even though previous legal decisions had introduced this directive, but it is shown and we have not introduced it to the end and that we have had infringements of EU rights and therefore we have adopted a new law in 2018. The gas market in the Republic of Croatia was liberalised there sometime in 2008, but during that time we had a regulated gas price in such a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decisions determined suppliers on the wholesale gas market and its position in terms of determining the amount of gas needed, determining the capacity of gas storage and gas prices. So, by amending that new law in 2018, we changed it in a way that now the gas supplier actually chooses to compete and chooses HERA. What was then introduced is one transitional period from 3 years until 2021, and we now comply with that law from 2018 with Directive 73, but we have left a transitional period in which it is still not the price that the wholesaler has on the wholesale market, the wholesale gas market towards suppliers doing public service than that price regulated until 2021. As far as industry and entrepreneurship are concerned, there is practically a price deregulated back there in 2011. So, with these amendments and additions, we are now applying Directive 692 of the 2019 period, we were unable to apply it when it was adopted in 2019. What is good is that during these changes that are now ahead of us, everything that has been seen in these two years, along with the application of the directive, goes a little bit further. Thus, the definitions are complemented, some additional definitions are put in place, but only the application of the amount of the tariff items for public gas supply while the same for other gas supplies is determined on the market principles. It is then determined that, in order to carry out regulated energy activities, a methodology is adopted for both tariff items and individual prices and for all other charges, and not solely for compensation for the organisation of the gas market. In addition, as regards the Directive, the transport system operator shall be subject to the obligation to produce and deliver HERA to the approval of the 10-year plan but every 2 years. So he makes a 10-year plan every two years. It was before only when the tariff items for the transport of gas were to be changed. This approach is also in the electricity sector, so it's kind of the same approach for both gas and electricity. The implementation of a public tender and the period for which the supplier is designated in the public service obligation in the case of a new or extended distribution area shall be regulated. More detailed arrangements shall be made for the operation of HERA in order to maintain the conditions on the basis of which a supplier is selected in the public service obligation or a guaranteed supplier. For the public service obligation supplier, it shall be determined that it is required to charge the gas delivered in accordance with the applicable tariff items for the public service of gas supply and to make them publicly available at least 7 days before the start of application. The authorisation procedure and obligations of the system operator shall then be regulated by HERA and the Ministry of Energy when modifying the extension, adaptation, renewal or conclusion of a transport pipeline operating agreement with third countries. We do not have such gas pipelines at the moment, but we do have an indication, so it is good to put it all together now, especially with the EU Directive. It shall be prescribed to the organizer of the closed distribution system to deliver and update the data to the accounting measurement places as well as to equip the calculation measurement venues for the purposes of the data entry into the accounting venue register. In addition, the procedures for the storage of gas for the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021 are further specified. In particular, the area in which the gas supplier is a public service obligation to supply gas to customers in the category of household in order to identify it with the distribution area is regulated. It is also prescribed that the Agency conducts a tender for the selection of suppliers in public service obligations after 31 March 2021. It is commendable that you have put this bill in regular procedure, which means that we have enough time, on the other hand, of the Directive which is from 2019, is now going with the amendments to the law to be included in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and what is commendable, that everything that awaits us after this transitional period of 3 years through the application of the law now for almost 2 years, has already been seen in these amendments and additions to the law, you have made it even more clear and thus made it easier to ensure that transition that awaits us in 2021. In a conversation with distributors, it is obvious that this period of 3 years is welcome to them, in that time they have adjusted or will be adjusted by the end of that time of 3 years, so they already fully know what they expect in 2021 and are ready for it. Of course the HDZ Club will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183165	Thank you. All right, we're going to the clubs now, the first Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives, he's gone, he's losing his right. The second is Mr. Sasa Djujic, and he's got it and he doesn't lose his right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183166	Thank you, Vice President, for leaving me my rights. Dear colleagues, few but still this small colleague, therefore, the SDP Representatives Club will be abstentioned under this law. It is commendable that there is an increase in transparency and security, so that part of us welcome, we welcome this regulation about storage, there are also good things in this law, but it is good to follow and to keep in line, but some things change five for the better, I am sorry that in that law from 2018 things have not already been done, and what is different from then to today, is that the gas has been accumulated, and since 2021 it will be more expensive again, and that is what our citizens need to prepare, so we are not talking about the economy and distributors, we are talking about citizens, so they feel it, then we have been having a debate 2018 here around the collection, the fathers will be, so I should not be convinced by my colleagues from HDZ that there are no gatherings, but the citizens have felt it in their pockets and the truth that we need to be able to say it again in terms of energy and energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183167	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic. Mr. Stjepan Curaj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183168	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues. Very briefly, of course, the HNS club will support these changes, in fact which aims to ensure that the rules applied to transport gases, which connect two or more states, are applied within the EU to transport pipelines leading to third countries. So, I absolutely don't think I'm repeating everything here, I'm just going to say some of the items that apply, di-coordinate, so what's good to say is that in order to carry out regulated energy activities, a methodology for both the amounts of tariff items and the individual prices and all the other fees and not just for the compensation of the organisation of the gas markets. What might be good to regulate the conduct of the HERA for continuing maintenance of the conditions on the basis of which the supplier is selected in the public service obligation or the guaranteed supplier, so when someone would say what they have to say, we have the same situation with electricity, that the agency can as some so far or that it will be obliged to conduct a tender for the new supplier and not only to jump in it naturally HEP wherever it should be, right? For the public service service provider, it shall be determined that it is required to charge the gas delivered in accordance with the applicable amounts of the public service gas tariff items and that, in an appropriate manner, it must be published by the public at least 7 days before the start of application or the actual restriction is that the tariff items must be less than or equal to the supply of gas by the supplier, so here we absolutely have that we know exactly what the tariff item to apply is. What I would like to take advantage of right now is that I am not reading again and I am not going with all these new changes or more technical natures, that I have here in the current morning question for Minister Coric, I have just cited as an example of this law on the gas market where I might be intervened, and I am using this opportunity to tell you where this law would guarantee the security of supply or gas to our end-users, households and here we should go to change to prescribe the obligation for suppliers and distributors precisely for that security of increasing security, not only of gas supply but also the use of the same gas to install carbon monoxide detectors in their households where it was spent on gas on their costs, of course. It means that distributors share costs with suppliers and install carbon monoxide detectors that basic and offer the possibility of some upgrade that citizens can also participate with some afraid models that automatically extract gas. Because every year there are over 30 poisonings, death cases we're reading here last summer it was not a matter of gas consumption, but of any consumption of internal combustion, several and tourists died of carbon monoxide poisoning, and this is happening to us especially now in the heating season especially because we have a lot of consumers, households that are also heating up on gas and that there is actually, the obligation to be to all those suppliers and distributors to deliver and install one of those detectors to every household where there is consumption. Because in this way it would greatly increase safety and I think it would reduce the number of poisonings, especially fatalities as a consequence. Because I think it's one life saved, and it's worth it. These are negligible costs in terms of fees, negligible costs in terms of prices and certain that one detector can be amortised over a longer period of use and for several years, that it is not only short term. So I believe that there is space in their calculations and prices and that every consumer that they can and that level of security, not only security of supply, people having gas, but also when they use it to safely have that level of detection and to save a single life, it could certainly be done, it could be regulated by this law, because it also prescribes the rights and obligations and suppliers and distributors and distributors and, of course, even the customers and, of course, it would be some new one in the proposal to amend and supplement this law that, of course, the minister himself accepted and extended it to all the expenditures that have internal combustion, so not only gas, but this would be grotes of things that could be prevented, and I think that this one proposal that could certainly be brought to life, should actually increase the security of our citizens, which should be the goal of all, that, with the security of the very supply and the security of the energy use and consumption itself. Therefore, the final HNS Club will, of course, accept these amendments and alignment with the directive so that I appeal once again to consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183169	Thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj, will have, no, first is Mr. Sasa Djujic who will now have an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, what I want to warn you about in my individual debate, is this 2021 year when we come out of practically this regulation of the price of gas or the possibility of regulation of certain prices of gas by the state, so we have been falling in Croatia for the production of domestic gas of that year, so for some 10% we fell last year and we have been cut, from 2017 to today we import more gas than we produce it. And why am I saying that now? Because after this is essentially 2021, there is a possibility that in Croatia our domestic gas produced in Croatia will practically be exported through distributors, and then at a much higher price we import back into Croatia and pay for it by our citizens. I want this one here even though it was already expected in 2018 when we passed this first law, but this extension of this period of 3 years has prevented it, now that deadline is very close and practically divides us a year from that moment when it might happen and I am here to appeal to you here to try this one, try to do something in that direction that we are not going to produce in Croatia gas that we then export cheaply and re-import it expensively. As it happens to us practically in all economic branches and in wood, we export wood at cheap prices then we import expensive furniture, etc., so here I appeal to you in the ministry to give you an additional effort on this matter and try to do this all so that it doesn't come and try, this is good to regulate the internal market, it's good liberalisation I know that the EU dictates certain, certain things, but I think that this country through certain measures and programmes can, perhaps prevent this scenario that awaits us in 2021. I am also taking the opportunity to support this initiative by my colleague Curray in my individual debate on the implementation of the cost of these carbon monoxide distributors. I think it's a very good idea and it's useful and I think here's the way we'd really do it, and here I am personally, and I believe my party also supports that idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183171	Thank you, too. Mr. Totgergeli asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183172	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, I understand the fear of exporting our gas, and then we import that same gas at a more expensive price, but simply in market conditions it is unsustainable practically. Similarly, such a similar fear could have occurred with electricity, however it did not happen. So if someone on the market can find a cheaper gas somewhere, and the one who has excess gas can buy it somewhere more expensive, then it's gonna happen, but it's hardly going to go import more expensive, if it can find something cheaper on the market somewhere. And on the other hand, at 2021, what is changing will continue to be a gas wholesaler for those suppliers that have a public service, which will now not determine the government's price, but the HERA will practically win that wholesaler's profits in the competition and thus will be priced. Still remains that variant that suppliers for public service have been able to shop at other gases so far [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] But they took almost from the big one, [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] a large supplier. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183173	Answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183174	And that could have happened with electricity, and fortunately it didn't, but there's a serious danger here because all the indicators show us that we've been falling gas production for the last few years, okay, and we're starting to import more. So, by 2017, we had no situation that when it comes to gas, we had more imports than exports. That trend has turned around and I'm afraid that when this thing starts, it's not going to be sold by domestic producers because it's because I can get a higher price out there and then we're going to have to buy what we have here. I mean, that's what I'm afraid of, that part of it I'm warning, I don't think there's going to be so much free market that then big suppliers or retailers in Croatia will be able to buy whatever they want than those who produce are going to push it out because there can get a higher price than with woodwork, so much more expensive they sell it in Italy, they put furniture there and sell it, then we import it. It's actually bigger money here, that's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183175	Mr. Churi, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183176	First of all, thank you for your support for the initiative, just to be clear, you probably think about this export of cheap gas, you think about our platforms at sea where we export gas to Italy, that's because they're 50% owners so they're what they're called, they're pulling their share of gas for some, and I doubt that anywhere we're going to export, that the same company that owns it, exports cheaply and buys this, it's a malt not criminal act, not malts, but a criminal act in economic business, and then when we talk about security is actually the topic that we had here before, a year and a few days ago, which is building LNG terminals. So if we're going down with our own production, we're giving the LNG terminal a single security supply on the market that if the gas price really goes up so much, it's going to get very physical and then we're going to secure that and the flow and only the supply of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183177	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183178	Yes, the Italians are pulling their gas but then in the overall balance sheet of Croatia it turns out that we have more exports than imports. And there's still that stuff, but look, don't tell me about the LNG terminal on Krk, that's what, the red cloth, this floating, I wish it was fixed, and so we've already talked about it, knows Mr. Milatić when we last spoke, yesterday, the day before, it's an indicator where again without any economic interest a project is pushing and building there even though there's no interest and economic calculus that this floating is in the shape it is. Generally, as regards Croatia's energy independence in all areas not only gas, this should be a national interest of strategic importance and the country should act. We sold the INA to the Hungarians and unfortunately what did we get after 20 years? We got it that the Hungarians, for example, set off our refineries in both Sisak and Rijeka, and at the expense of MOL, and there is essentially one branch that has failed, we must not allow it to happen to us with another branch, with neither gas nor electricity, nor so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183179	Thank you, thank you. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183180	Thank you. I'm going to be a little more free in this individual's terms, I'm speaking for myself. So, what do we actually have that's the simplest way of saying it? So we regulate the conduct of a public tender and the period to which the supplier is determined. It shall be governed by the conduct of HERA on the basis of which the maintenance of these conditions, continuous maintenance of the conditions on which the supplier is in a public service obligation or so on. The guaranteed supplier, so they have to conduct the tender. We had a situation that the HEP administration had to sign a contract in which it knows in advance to use a public supply service or guaranteed supply, a contract on the basis of which it ordered HERA with which they go consciously into loss because it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It's not a company that can't do that. It must not work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, it must work in the interests of society and each person must do so, otherwise it brings himself into an ungrateful situation, practically a criminal offence. And by doing so we had this one situation where the Assembly can decide, the state as owner may decide, not the administration, I hope that it is settled because citizens must be true first, but we need to know what the rules of the game are and therefore it is said here that for suppliers this will be determined in a public service obligation, determines in fact that it is obliged to charge the gas supplied in accordance with the applicable amounts of tariff items for public gas supply and that in an appropriate manner publish them publicly for 7 days... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the restriction that tariff items must be less than or equal to the supply cost of the supplier's gas supply is lifted. So, exactly what I was saying, so we're going towards liberalisation, we heard that in 2021 when it should be complete and I think these changes are on the trail of that, and there's going to be some things much simpler and much clearer, so I'm saying this is because these situations where you have to impose someone to do practical things, we know what happened with the INA and the gas business and the separation of that same gas business for the same reasons, that you impose on some state-owned company in fact that it has to guarantee security, that's not the job of that company, that's the task of the RH, and that's what needs to be arranged, and I think that this is exactly how it's going to be done. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183181	Thank you. Two replicas, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183182	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, you have now said that you should not essentially impose a state through the price of a company to work with a loss and that it is not good and declare it public interest, I can agree with you in that act. However, here you mentioned earlier in the replica to me LNG terminal in Krk, in which, for example, the state in a special law said that if there were losses and no positive business, that the state would calm down. Now, that's what you said in that law. ... Yes, it is. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's how it is, and we have this law one that, say, is completely illogical in everything. So once again, I will repeat, LNG floating on the island of Krk, past the space-planned documentation and the municipalities of Omisalj and the County of Primorje-goranska, past the will of the citizens, lex specialis brought into this House where then the price and conditions and construction of force and everything expensive can be dictated and I think it is not good and we agree there, and I am glad that you agree that this should not happen, floating LNG terminal on the island of Krk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183183	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183184	Thank you. It's not the same thing, it would be the same if the state then made a difference in the price of gas to HEP, and then it would be the same. So the state from its budget would settle the difference like what you said with LNG, and then that's the same thing. LNG is not a matter of physiology, it's a matter of cost of benefits. So the issue of gas supply and security because it can't be on the market, no one has a magic ball to say that this is what the situation and the entire gas is going to be like for the next 20 or 10 years. And we owe our citizens that security. Not only for the citizens, but it is also a supply flow for all of Europe, and thus we become one of not only on the part of some observers, but from actors in the energy system of Europe who will certainly have a role at some point, and that is why it is important, because of this long-term and security, and it cannot be measured by some calculation plus or minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183185	Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183186	Thank you. So I would actually refer to those detectors that you mentioned when you spoke on behalf of the club at first, of course it looks interesting and I don't think it's at all about the price, although it's a large number and it's a significant distributor, but since it's once and for all. I think there's a bigger problem, given the number and what kind of distributors we have, so it's not about one distributor in the whole of Croatia than I don't know, 33, 34 distributors, there are also small, different, they'd actually have a problem with what with these detectors when they're signaling something, where with that, if it's just a sound, however, what in general, how to do it and what to do in that case when we say it happens somewhere in the night, there's no one there in his offices because they don't have a duty to be on duty as some dispatchers, like in HEP's dispatch centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183187	Thank you. Mr. Chury, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183188	Therefore, the proposal is to split the cost between distributors and suppliers. As for the apparatus itself, it's actually in that most basic model, it gives sound signals, alarms the people in the house, not the distribution center, but the people in the house, gives the detected amount of gas, it's most often placed close to spending it on the first one when it hasn't spread, that it gets excited whether it wakes up in the middle of the night because the most common deaths occur, because that gas is tasteless, odourless, it can't be detected at all, that they see that something is wrong, that they shut down the gas and come out and call all the competent services. That's what the basic sense is. And I think that we could do so if this cost were to be shared, in order to really get one greater security from our citizens and prevent any further poisoning or unfortunately fatalities and with a view to what is stated in this law, in the initial articles, that the safety of our citizens or customers themselves is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183189	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, he's gone, he's losing his right. And now, in the end, Mr. Secretary of State Ivo Milatić will give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the debate on this law, and I would look back a little on these issues and the thesis that was about. So when Mr. Djujic mentioned on behalf of the club that in 2018 we did not solve the issue of gas or the gas market and all of this which is the subject of this law, there would in no way agree, I would just turn the thesis. You should say, you were able to agree with the European Commission that the opposite of the directive that forced us to deregulated the market in 2018 and leave gas price formation to market conditions, we managed to have regulation by 2021, and that, exactly what you and Mr. Curaj had now discussed, that the state had decided by its will simply given that the competition for the authorised wholesaler had not been reported by anyone, that clearly the state agency which was the only independent, had put it in the task of HEP, which was once again state and which then put the burden of regulation on itself and then I would have prayed that it would be said here, this is the Government and the Croatian Parliament in which you were clearly and all together, you voted the law that allowed Croatian citizens to make significant savings in their budgets because they did not pay gas that would not be objectively more expensive than it is now because it is regulated. You must know that we are now about 40% cheaper than the European average. So that's something that's good in our country, that the price of gas is 40% cheaper than the European average, one thing, is that last year there was a slight correction of the price of gas that happened in the middle of all market and other situations but here I can announce that based on a new law that I hope will be adopted very quickly in the second reading, we will have certainly 1% cheaper gas in this year, meaning of 1. 4th to the end of the year, which means somewhere 40 kuna per year for an average customer, which is not something terrible, but most importantly, this year's gas will not be collected but will be cheaper. When it comes to the difficulty of us exporting more, we import more. It's a groundless thesis. We need to know that gas is a stock market. So stock exchange is a commodity that has its stock price independent of the theoretically entire Croatian gas exports and re-imports some other gas for consumption, it absolutely has nothing to do with the formation of the price of gas. So the price of gas is formed on the basis of the reference prices on the stock exchanges and that is the nearest Baumgartner and others, and therefore the price of gas is formed in the Republic of Croatia and when the situation is deregified, so the price of gas will continue to be formed, meaning it's not whether we now, I would like to agree with you absolutely that today when we produce about 0.4, 0.5 BCM on the Adriatic and remain in the mainland, somewhere around a billion and a hundred, 1.1 billion ccs we produce in Croatia and we spend up to 2.5 billion, I would also be happy that in 2008 and 2009, when we produced 3 billion and we spent the same 2.5 billion, but that's the fact as it is, and that's why we are through... The hydrocarbons triggered some things, some drillings are present and clearly we do not expect some spectacles in terms of oil but we expect in terms of gas that some discoveries might occur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as these detectors are concerned, this is a very good idea, and I just don't think it's a supplying topic. As far as I know from when I was chief, I don't think there's a bill in Croatia yet, but there's a law on the municipal economy that I think is a good law in which what I think is very interesting and good would be a good thing to be built on, because ultimately, smokers should have in their legal obligation to build up, or that the citizens who have an astounded water heater or any kind of fire, have that one and I think it might come to us, and we'll certainly have to comment on your initiative with the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, which is in charge of such things, but we don't mind that in some future regulations and our energy that might get us through, but I think it would be the smartest. As far as the thesis is concerned, I have to go back to LNG again. When you say that floating LNG is invaluable and you advocate fixed LNG, all the calculations that are placed on paper, say that fixed LNG is at least 40, 50, and maybe more than one percent more expensive, we speak in these capacities as well as floating, than floating. If you are constantly saying that this is a total loss, then there would be an even greater loss so that I think that there around floating LNG should certainly be at the attitude that it is good and what Mr. Chury mentioned, there is primarily floating LNG and LNG is good for the future, it is as if you have one fuse, one FID clutch that will simply at the moment when someone is going wild in terms of prices from the north, it will always be a threat to them to include her. So that's something where the state has to spray its money and the EU also to mean that both for the EU and Croatia, we provide one additional security, and I remember working at the ministry that built the highway and I couldn't possibly figure out that some big minds in traffic were then saying that it was a total failure, how expensive this is, what it is, and today, if it wasn't for that highway, we wouldn't brag about 20% of GDP in tourism and I wouldn't be that our quality of life was the way it is. So I am convinced that LNG is a good thing, this law is also a good thing because it will allow us to move in one painless way to the deregulated market and what will happen then, the same thing that happened when the electricity was derivated, the same thing that happened when it deregulated the sales of oil derivatives and diesels and other things, nothing spectacularly will happen, the prices will go wild, the market will do it in its own way, Croatia has enough gas companies, which will indeed have a good competitive in its competition, so that we are convinced that this law is a good framework for it and that our citizens will not experience any spectacular price increase, that it will be in some shades, but the fact is that it will simply be the price that will be objectively possible with sure that the average of Europe because we simply have such parameters and we can have enough gas production of our own. That's so much from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183191	Mr. Djujic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183192	Mr. Milatić, I am not going to enter into the debate of the LNG terminal on the island of Krk, we say a lot, especially you and I constantly in this Visko home so that I know your views, you know mine, and we will not agree there anyway, but it is good to talk. But I want to look back on this part of you how you basically said that you should be commended for extending the deregulation of the market by 2021 and that's success. Look, it's not a success or a solution to the problem. It's a delay in one problem, it's good to delay always but watch 2021 is there and now why I'm worried about it, I'm worried because then the SDP will be in power with its coalition partners and then they'll collect the price of gas and then again, not you, you'll always be with us, but HDZ will then say that when we come, we raise prices and tear down wages and I don't think that's right, and that's why I want to draw attention to it. If the price is now 40% below the European average, then there is a risk that the gas price will rise 40%. You can think about what HDZ will do if during the SDP government There goes the price of the gas up and that's what they've prepared for us, and that's why we need to talk about it today. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Here, here, I'm the last one, so it's over. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Well, I'm optimistic about some endings. ... [[I cynicism has its time running out.]] That's because HDZ has put it through. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183193	Mr. Giujic, time's up. I won't give you another warning, I won't give you anything but beg you to sit down. [[Invadica Djujic: So what are you going to give me, a second warning and a ban on speaking?]] Would you like to answer that? [[Intruder Djujic: OK, thank you, Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183194	Dear Parliamentarian Djujic, so he won't collect as much as you have concluded, and I'm glad you're counting with me and the next government, so I'll take it sovereignly here, probably with the Vice President of the Parliament, and I'll try to explain to you that that transition wasn't so big, and I hope the citizens understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183195	And the last replicator is Mr. Chury, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183196	... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why was I talking about the obligation of a distributor to this proposal? Well, that's what I actually came up with and came out of the obligations that talk about the law on flammable fluids and gases. It states that the legal obligations of the distribution system operator, in fact the responsibility of the distributor, have passed to examine the regularity and impermeability of the gas installation itself and the gas consumption and chimneys. Translated, they're not responsible for what's coming, but for what's connected to the gas, the stove. Anything else. Who's joining it? Humans themselves, some masters. And according to this law, they should unplug the gas if they determine the malfunction they can't do, but from that, if that's how we put it in that law, then this thing for detectors is the least of the problems and then we can really... Now I'm not saying that this might be a good solution in the law, but the power supply law doesn't have it, but it's the master responsible who sets the fuses and not the HEP-ODS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183197	Would you like to answer that? No, I don't. Thank you very much, I'm closing the debate and now... And, well, I'm closing the debate and now I have the privilege of informing individually and by name, is that, Mr. Curaj, Mr. Bulja and Mr. Djujic, what we're going to do tomorrow. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Tomorrow, at 9:30, we will begin with the proposal for a Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System. The second item will be the Proposal for a Law on the provision of information on multimodal travel. That's all. Have a nice evening and thank you very much. ... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Have a nice evening. [[/Intruder Bull: That's it for the end?]] You're on your own about the rest. [[Intruder Bull: And to you.]] SUNCH Interrupted at 18:28 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-23-0.u183198	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the gas market, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 824, the motioner is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 34 abstentions, the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear MPs and respected MPs on Monday (January 27th) are marked by the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. On that day, the whole world pays deep respect to the victims of Nazi persecution and genocide against the Jewish people, but also to all victims of Nazi and fascist regimes during World War II. With a special pie, we also remember all the survivors of the Holocaust and their families. This morning, at the Jewish part of the cemetery of Mirogoj in front of the sculpture of Moses, we laid a crown with the participation of the president of the Jewish religious community Beth Israel in Croatia, Mr. Alexander Sredkovic, the president of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb, Mr. Ognjen Kraus and the rabbis of the Jewish religious community Bet Israel Kotel Da-Don. Dear MPs and MPs this year have been marked 75 years since the release of the Auschwitz Nazi concentration camp. This camp of death, terror and cruelty also symbolizes all other places where genocide was committed against the Jewish people, but also the systematic extermination of other unwanted groups during Nazi and fascist regimes and in which a crime of over 6 million innocent people whose only guilt was to the monstrosity of Nazi ideology differs from the chosen ones. The Republic of Croatia participates at the highest level in marking this event. The President of the Republic participated in Jerusalem yesterday at the 5th World Holocaust Forum under the auspices of the President of the State of Israel, and the Prime Minister of the Republic will take part in Poland on Monday, along with other heads of state and government, to officially mark the release of the Auschwitz camp. Today, when we mark this event, we make a permanent commitment that we will never forget the Holocaust and all its victims by name, but also all those brave people who resisted Nazi and fascist regimes and helped the people of the Jewish people, including for now from Croatia 118 righteous people among the nations. As a country with a painful historical experience of totalitarian criminal regimes, today we remember and give pitet to members of Jewish and other nations killed during the Ustasha criminal regime as well as their families. Today we also accept the responsibility to do everything to prevent anti-Semitism, racism, xenophobia and discrimination in our societies and to permanently promote the democratic ideal of respect for every man with his inalienable dignity. Dear MPs and MPs have been seen for several years in Europe and there has been a widespread increase in hate speech and hate crimes, racism, xenophobia and intolerance towards minorities and other sensitive groups including Jews. This growing anti-Semitism, regardless of what extreme political or religious orientation, ideology or belief rests, is contrary to the fundamental values and respect for the human rights on which democratic societies rest and is a threat to peace, freedom, pluralism and democracy. Therefore, a number of European institutions have brought in documents calling on countries to promote awareness of the need for prevention and continued repression of anti-Semitism. On these grounds, as well as on its constitutional obligation to guarantee all members of national minorities, including Jews equality and the exercise of all rights in accordance with the highest democratic norms, Croatia joined the International Holocaust Memory Alliance in 2005. The main task of the alliance is to promote permanent memory, research, learning and education about the holocaust of its patterns and consequences especially among young people, but also to promote awareness of the need to fight each form of anti-Semitism. In this light, it is driven by the fact that a large number of people, especially young people, are not sufficiently familiar with what is a holocaust or are denied by members of the International Holocaust Memory Alliance, adopted in 2016 the working definition of anti-Semitism. This prompted all countries to use this document as a useful guideline and a pedagogical tool in teaching about the holocaust, but also on the daily work of various government and non-governmental institutions to identify and fight modern forms of anti-Semitism more effectively. On the occasion of the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims and the promotion of the work of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament reached its 59th session, held on 23 January this year, a conclusion that encourages the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and civil society to promote the working definition of anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism is a certain concept of Jews that can be shown as hate for them, as well as oral, written and physical expressions aimed at Jews or non-Jews and/or their property, institutions of the Jewish community and Jewish religious objects. Now I call upon you honourable MPs and advocates to pay tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust who must remain forever in the collective consciousness of humanity so that these crimes will never be repeated again. - A moment of silence - May it be their eternal glory.
