ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202032	Now we continue with the order, the first item of today's agenda is: - The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 for the purposes of national minorities The Proposer of the Report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article. 37. Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ivan Malenica, Minister of Management, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202033	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. In accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit to the Croatian Assembly a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and on the spending of funds provided for the needs of national minorities in the State budget for 2018. First of all, let us assume that data on the equal use of the official language and letters of national minorities, data on representation of members of national minorities on the executive representative and administrative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and data on the activities and financing of the Council and representatives of national minorities are collected for the purposes of this report from 2018 through an e-system to monitor the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The E-system is developed under the IPA project, supporting the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities from 2016 to 2017 and enabling a structured and uniform way of collecting those data. In relation to the official and equal use of language and letter, in 27 local units in which the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is mandatory to introduce minority language and letters into equal official use, it is necessary to point out that there have been no significant changes in the statutes of those units compared to the previous 2017, and the units have largely fulfilled the obligation to comply with their statutes with the relevant legal provisions, however, certain rights governed by the statutes do not fully apply in practice. Those units have not informed of the interest of members of national minorities in the use of their language and letter in procedures I and II. the level of self-government management bodies and such interest has not been recorded in proceedings before the authorities of the state administration. The exception is an individual unit of local self-government in Istria, where bilingualism is introduced by statutes and which records a significant number of procedures in Italian. It is important to stress that an increase in the number of bilingual identity cards issued has been observed, in particular, by members of the Italian, Hungarian and Czech national minorities. In the area of education and education, the language and letter of national minorities have consistently ensured a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The Ministry of Science and Education fully fulfils all obligations under the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities towards students of primary and secondary schools to members of national minorities thus confirming that Croatian education policy applies the highest standards in relation to the education and education of national minorities. The education of students in the course performed in general in the language and letter of national minorities according to model A is successful, while more and more pupils in primary schools are also involved in learning the language and culture of national minorities according to model C. Since the school year 2018/2019. It was approved to form a course according to model C in 16 schools and was first approved and set up for members of the Bosniak national minority in 10 primary schools. The implementation of measures and activities to meet the objectives of the National Roma Integration Strategy for the period 2013 to 2020 has also made further progress in the area of education and education of Roma national minorities, including at all levels of the education system. In relation to achieving the rights of national minorities to access public media, during 2018, the need for improvement and the need for continued and systematic education of journalists dealing with minority issues and education is also necessarily linked to public-space hate speech with the aim of sensitising the public on the negative influences of hate speech and preventing the spread of stereotypes and prejudice. HRT is obliged to produce or publish emissions intended to inform members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of its programme principles and obligations. That obligation arises from the new contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2022, which, among other things, is the contracted programme HRT originating in the HRT Act. In the area of cultural autonomy of national minorities through the Ministry of Culture, continued financing of library equipment, news and library-teaching activities, musical and historical activities and cultural and artistic amateurism, visual, new media and film activities, international cultural cooperation, archival and museum-gallery activities and protection of cultural heritage of national minorities and through the Council for National Minorities, various programmes of associations and institutions of national minorities are funded. Many associations and institutions established by members of national minorities with the aim of preserving the development and promotion and showing their cultural identity suggest a high degree of achievement of national minorities' rights to cultural autonomy. Significant funds are also allocated at local level, especially in urban centres, for various cultural projects organised by associations of national minorities on their own or together with other stakeholders. With regard to political participation, members of national minorities have achieved the prescribed representation in the Croatian Parliament and have fully exercised their right to represent the representative and executive bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Employment of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, judicial authorities and authorities of the self-government unit is regulated. 22. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities which ensures representation of members of national minorities in those bodies in such a way that they have the right to take advantage of employment under the same conditions. In the previous period, the decision to ban the new employment of civil servants and deputies in state administration bodies and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is still in force, reflecting on the possibility of employment in the public service and on the employment of national minorities in general. According to the Ministry of Administration, on 31 December 2018 in the authorities of the state administration and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 49 612 employees and tenants were employed, of which 1605 or 3,24% were members of national minorities, representing a slight decline in percentage share compared to 2017 when that share was 3,34%. Effective employment of members of national minorities with the adoption of annual reception plans depends on the application of members of national minorities to competitions, to call for priority in employment, to meet the conditions for the job to be completed and to the results of the tests and interviews carried out. According to the Ministry of Administration, on 31st day. 12. In 2018, a total of 14 058 employees were employed in local and regional (regional) administrative bodies, of which 463 or 3,31 members of one of the 22 national minorities were employed. 529 or 3.78 unknown, 18 or 0.13 undetermined and 8 or 0.06% of officials and tenants who pleaded as Muslims. The comparisons work against the situation on 31 December 2017 in the administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government the total number of employees and subsistences increased by 314, while officials and subsistence members of national minorities increased by 8%. Councils and representatives of national minorities shall have the right and obligation of advisory participation in decision-making at local level concerning a matter of interest to the national minority. Data provided by the local and regional self-government units in 2018 show increased financial separation from the budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government at the level of the Republic of Croatia for the Council and representatives of national minorities. In most local units, the situation remained unchanged compared to last year, while some units made some progress with the joint action of the Council and representatives of national minorities and representatives of local and regional (regional) self-government. In 2018, the development of a proposal for a Council and representatives of national minorities, which detailed the selection procedure and other issues relating to the selection of members of the Council and representatives of national minorities, has been assessed in particular, and have been removed in practice... deficiencies or legal gaps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This aim was to improve electoral legislation at national level in accordance with democratic standards and also to improve, preserve and protect the position of national minorities in the section relating to elections for councils and representatives of national minorities, and for their participation in public life and local affairs management. Since 19 March 2019, the above law can be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has implemented a number of activities through the competent authorities in implementing the Constitutional Law on the Law of National Minorities during 2018 and for this purpose, 173 million kuna has been spent from the state budget, representing an increase compared to 2017 when 144 million kuna was spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202034	I would like to thank the Minister of Management. As in the good old days, we have many replicas, but two breaks were first requested. Representative Miro Bulj first asked for it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202035	Thank you very much. Respected representatives of the government, respected citizens, in the Republic of Croatia national minorities mostly exercise their rights stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia from the cultural, autonomy of national minorities, to funding in huge amounts compared to what I would like to say here, the honourable ministers and ask you what is the example of Croatia's comparison with Serbia, with the problem of the Croatian national minority in Serbia. Reciprocity is very important, in 2005, a reciprocity agreement was signed in 2004, while in Serbia, Croats do not have the right to represent their parliament, here is guaranteed 3 parliamentary deputies when we compare it. They are downstairs, the Croatian national minority is being chicanned, while in Croatia with 3 parliamentary representatives we have 40 mayors, mayor, i.e. those who are in units of local self-government, and in Serbia people simply our Croats have absolutely no rights. What about the Reciprocity Agreement signed in 2004? What did you do about it? Recently there was Mr. Zigmanov, a representative of the Croats, a national minority in Vojvodina, who spoke, calling out to representatives of the Croatian government, cry out to heaven about what is happening to Croats in the Republic of Serbia. They don't have any autonomy. They don't have any funding. In R. Serbia on one, if we look at the number, one member of the national minority, Croatia, is singled out One kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Comparison on the 37 kuna that is given here [[Intruder: Time's up.]] members of the Serb national minority [[Employer: Representative Bulj.]] Thank you very much. [[Employer: Representative Bulj, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202036	I'd like you to stick to the time proposed. Stanku also asked for MP Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202037	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. In front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, I'm looking for a break. We've been listening to the report here, and it all looks nice. But here I am going to ask a very specific question about the coronary crisis. Will the cultural associations financed in this way, in particular, I say, single out one association, the Serbian National Council, bear the burden of the crisis? If millions of kunas will continue to go specifically to these and similar organizations that extend, I will be clear, hate speech. You mentioned the hate speech here from the pay phone, the prevention of hate speech, and I cannot understand that the Croatian state today is financing the magazine News via the Serbian National Council Milorad Pupovac, and an explicit hate speech is spreading from that magazine, that is, through the work of the association. And that's what I don't get. One more thing that's very important, and everyone's afraid to say it. When we talk about national minorities, they are our valuables, however, let us not forget that 30 years ago, that members of a national minority took arms and tried to tear down their country of Croatia. It's very important to note and keep in mind. So, great, they're valuable, but we haven't heard from members of that national minority yet, a genuine apology for everything they've done. And finally, today we have an ethnic business, a real business from the election of representatives in HS to getting money through associations, and the best thing about this ethnic business is today's coalition that manages Croatia, I called it in that right way because it is the Croatian-Serbian trade coalition. Given what was going on in Jasenovac yesterday, I've spread it a little bit and I'm behind it. Croatian-Serbian-Roma Trade Coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202038	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, here is Representative Radin, Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202039	... He's been injured. In 238, when Mr Zekanovic mentioned in an extremely negative form the selection of representatives of national minorities in HS which is the subject of this constitutional law we are talking about today and voted for by 2/3 of the members of this Parliament because so much is needed. [[Specially enabled.]] So I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to warn Mr. Zekanovic [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to read that law to yourself [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202040	Representative Radin, I assumed that this point would be quite intense, I see that the greatest forces of the Croatian Parliament, still missing one or two, are all there and I expect that the debate will be, starting right in this tone. As far as I'm concerned, you won't get too much punishment, they'll talk best about you, I think about all the MPs who say what they say without punishment or anything. As far as insult is concerned, each person has the right to state his position. If that's her attitude, then attitudes also talk about people. But at this point, I can't tell if there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Zekanovic, I gave Representative Zekanovic, please, before I give you my word, I gave you my assessment, since there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, your violation of the Rules of Procedure is out of the question. [[/Intruder: In fact, you replied.]] I explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202041	... You actually said, I have a right to my position and I don't think that law is good, I agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202042	Thank you. No, Agent Bilek asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I would not agree that there will be a full debate in this direction, I think that in the Croatian Parliament it should certainly give positive guidance and this debate and everything that the Croatian Parliament does, all of its MPs, including representatives of national minorities, not only in these parts of the negativity that they have spoken, which I think is a very secondary thing, but also in the sense that we are trying to be a bridge between the Republic of Croatia and other countries. I can also say for example, here, the minorities I represent, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, that over the past few years, that more than 25 million kunas have reached investment in buildings, in the infrastructure of the Republic, to work together on education, to have bilaterals, here we are now working on a new bilateral right, a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic, is in preparation for the same thing with Slovakia that should be a link and a bridge, and not to say that in this difficult situation when we have a situation with COVID-19, with a corona crisis, we have tried to go together with our ambassadors in the direction of improvement, revitalisation of the economy, the possibility of our tourism, if everything is fine, to pass, to bring in some way and to be positive ambassadors to Croatian tourism outside the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I think that all these finances that are mentioned here are, of course, correct, but they're much less than they're saying here because a lot of the countries that are here and whose representatives represent, invest in both the Republic and the infrastructure, but I have to say one thing, and I'm going to ask all the colleagues and colleagues who are here today to be correct, don't judge the people for individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202044	Representative Bilek, I'd just like you to point out in the name of which club you're talking about... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Maras also requested a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think we are obliged to report and ask for a break in order to consult on some of the things that have been said here and to reject the assessments of some clubs and representatives related to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the law whose report we are hearing here today because I think it is enough for Croatia, Croatian citizens and if we turn to the future, enough is the parasitization of individuals in minorities and the negative context of one and the same story, I think it is simply a lot more to listen to and in a way that Croatian citizens will be able to assess that essentially those who do not want good to Croatia. On the other hand, I think that Croatia needs such a law, that it is good to have it, that it is good to fully apply it and that we cannot fall under individual grades, so that people are not satisfied that some representatives of national minorities, such as Mr Bilek in the club of Representative Milan Bandic. Well, I'm sure, or Mrs. Devereaux. Prljas, so it can't be for anyone, it can't be an honor to be in a club representing a jumper indictee who has been harassing the city of Zagreb for years but not members of the national minorities for it, they will know in the autumn whether it is an honor to be in the club Milan Bandic and to vote again for these colleagues and colleagues or not. And that's why I completely reject what my colleague Zekanovic said and what my colleague Bulj said, I don't think we should compare ourselves to the worse ones. That Serbia is what it is, so that doesn't mean that Croatia has to be. We need to be a role model, we need to show how we treat national minorities and we need to show what kind of Croatia we want all of our citizens to feel good here, safe and have a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202046	Thank you. Representative Vučetic also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202047	Thank you. I'm asking for a break on behalf of the club to warn the public of one fact that almost everyone knows, but it's not clear enough, at least in this assembly. And that fact is, nationalism is stupid. Why is nationalism stupid? He's stupid for betraying the idea of a nation. The idea of the Croatian nation was achieved in the Croatian state, what the Croatian state is, it is contained in the Constitution and the laws. When we don't implement the Constitution and we don't enforce the laws, then we're against this state. Stupid nationalists are against this country and they're not aware of it. Stupid nationalism does not realise that with objections to the national minority, specifically to the Serb national minority, it is necessary to refer to the Serbian state's model to the Croats. So stupid nationalists argue that the model of ruling in the Republic of Serbia is a model of ruling, so nationalism is stupid. Why is nationalism stupid? Because it is promoted by fools who do not understand the value of the state and who do not understand the value of Croatian citizens. National minorities are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they're not our supplement, they're not our value we're going to hang around our necks, they're the value of the Republic of Croatia, they're the Republic of Croatia, they're the Constitution and they're the laws. And if they're nationalists, they're stupid too. As long as they're not nationalists, and as long as someone isn't a nationalist, he's building a state. When he became a nationalist, he manifested himself before the state as an anti-state element, as someone who destroys the state or in a familiar sense, as an ordinary fool.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202048	Representative Babic also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202049	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break in the name of the HDZ Club in order to consult on this topic, i.e. a report on the spending of national minorities' funds under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and to present certain things and inaccuracies that are spoken here in the Croatian Parliament. In this report, there is one chapter on bilateral co-operation, so bilateral co-operation with other countries, especially where Croatian national minorities live and thus also in the Republic of Serbia. If this report had been read, it would have been seen that continued efforts were being made to improve the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia through an intergovernmental mixed committee, not only in Serbia but also in Northern Macedonia, especially in 2018, we can talk and see about the status of the Croatian national minority in Slovenia. Of course, it is in our interest that the Croatian national minorities in other countries mainly in the Republic of Serbia have a far better status than in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately this depends on the Republic of Serbia or its government, their parliament, but we try every time and in every occasion institutionally and through meetings to actually talk about the improvement and position of the Croatian national minority in the Republic, which we will of course continue to do, which is why I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202050	Is there any other club representing the break? If not, then I'm setting a five-minute break, thank you. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.04 HOURS]] There are 8 replicas, the first replica requested by Representative Bulj, please. Wait, somebody didn't turn off the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202052	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question, and I asked that at the stop, that's a very important question. In Croatia, constitutional rights towards national minorities are also fulfilled by the majority. We even have a double history in the city of Vukovar where those who attacked have their own history and we have official Croatian history. What has been taken into account is that two different, in the same schools, two different history learnt and what you have taken on the reciprocations of these 2004 agreements where the Croatian national minority in Serbia has absolutely no rights, no funding rights, no government participation rights, from local to state, is simply to cry out these people, that is my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202053	Replication response, Minister of Administration. ... In the end. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Representative Zekanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202054	Dear Minister, but here's a question actually for Secretary of State Poljička, what I asked at the stop, here's Sibenik asking the Sibeniks, I want to hear your attitude regarding the work of the Serbian People's Council, the magazine "News". I just said here as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and I'm asking you a question, what do you think about the hate speech that's spreading from that magazine, your position and whether you as Minister and Secretary of State will do something about it to finally stop it. I don't see any reason to finance such a thing, that hate speech is placed in public space and you're in a position to stop it. Well, then, here's your opinion and, of course, the answer to that question will you do something to finally prevent it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202055	The representative of the Jecks asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202056	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the report uses data on expenditure to finance the rights of national minorities related to other laws. Why is that? So this amount that's listed seems to be pretty high, and what, for example, is the funds for housing that are otherwise covered by the Housekeeping Act inserted into this report? Why is the funding of religious communities also found in this report when we know how it is financed, or through contracts with religious communities? Like I said, these funds and these figures are pretty unreal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202057	Representative Kajtazi asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202058	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. In your own presentation, you mentioned a national strategy, I don't know if you know that before that it was from 2005 to 2015, that very little was done, almost nothing, then a national strategy appears from 2013 to 2020. I don't know how much you're aware that only 30% of local self-government units have come up with action plans. And now I ask the question, how will the realisation of the national strategy itself be carried out when the national strategy includes one vicious circle, it is housing, education employment, health, etc.? If they do not have a unit of local self-government in their budget, then they cannot reach the implementation itself and today we are 2020 and we are talking about a national strategy from 2013 to 2020. The only thing this government has brought is an operational programme for national minorities that I have to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202059	Thank you. Time's up. There'll be time today. [[Intruder Katazi: Thank you.]] Representative Babic called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202060	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you said in your presentation that because of the bilinguality of the issue of ID cards in 2018 there were about 3 358, 3 160 were in Italian and only a smaller number, somewhere 98 in Serbian or 36 in Hungarian and Slovak and something in Russian, by 2. Is this telling you that there is no interest of national minorities in issuing identity cards on bilingualism other than Italian, probably because of the border and for reasons that I understand, or do you have some information in 2019 that a much greater requirement for issuing ID cards in 2 languages is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202061	Representatives Bilek reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I wanted to replicate about the Bill of Elections for the Council of National Minorities Representatives. In fact, I think that the law is really well done and that it is functional, there will probably be some minor repairs, but one little thing that may not be well defined is campaign financing or public media access related to that part, and I think absolutely there was not enough hearing, first of all, from public media, from state television to at all be presentations about these elections that they are ongoing and what they are. So we have that part that's connected to all the other choices, where there's a certain obligation means pre-election campaign while it's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202063	Representative Vučetic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202064	Thank you. When it comes to choosing the rights of national minorities, or when someone on a national basis is denied a right, it is about hate speech. However, this denial can also result from silence. In 2018, we had silence, legal silence, the silence of depriving national minorities' rights in several cities and municipalities. I will not mention now, on purpose, that case that we are all arguing about but less widespread cases, which is in Grazac, 45% of the population is a Serb national minority, and then their statute was not in line with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Furthermore, in the city of Vrbovska they have a consistent statute with the law, but neither the law nor the statutes are implemented. This is the silence within which the denial of the rights of national minorities takes place.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202065	Thank you. Representative Culey has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202066	Croatians and Croats, of course and respected national minorities, are generally known, there is an old saying, that a dead man has no feelings and that nothing hurts him for one reason, he's dead, he knows nothing. Well, so is a man when he's stupid, and he doesn't feel like he's stupid because he doesn't know he's stupid. When someone is called a nationalist and one who spreads hate speech, I can only show a few headlines that I managed to copy quickly. So, Croats, you're not dead, but are you stupid enough to finance the record of a national minority of News that draws you with Hitler's mustaches, which puts you the target with the letter U, who needs to be solved, by retrieving that five-pointer in another form, The beautiful one burns nicely [[Employer: Representative Culej.]] To battle, to fight [[/Intruder: Time's up. Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202067	Time's up, Agent Culey. Thank you. There'll be time. Replication response, Minister of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202068	Okay? So this is about reciprocity, so the Republic of Croatia, the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, is in a continuous dialogue and talks with representatives of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Croatia, this shows the fact that certain financial assistance is, in particular, in the construction of the Croatian House, but also bilateral talks with representatives of the Republic of Serbia in the direction of improving the status of members of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Croatia. What I read in the media, what he said. Mr. Zigman, Zigmanov, therefore, sees certain shifts in the exercise of certain rights when it comes to education, when it comes to certain infrastructure projects. As for the financial indicators...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202069	Time's up. Excuse me, you'll have to use your reply to the replica a little more often. But there will be times always, as a proposing you have the right to speak. We're moving on with our work. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge has applied for participation in the debate, MP Miro Bulj will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202070	Thank you very much. Dear citizens, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian state and Croatian people are one body with national minorities. The contribution of national minorities is huge, I come from the neighbourhood and live with the people of the Serbian national minority and most of these people contribute to Croatian society in every form and in this way we should talk about national minorities, we are a part of Croatia, the Croatian Corps, all together and we all live together in the same society and share the same fates. As far as the Constitutional Law is concerned, i.e. The National Minorities Act, it is implemented in the Republic of Croatia 90% with certain exceptions that are in each law happening in practice. However, here when we talk about national minorities, it is well mentioned that in the area of cultural autonomy of national minorities, in the field of political participation of members of national minorities, that absolute national minorities, so here in Croatia national minorities are part of the majority, I am now speaking part of the opposition, in this case the national minority is part of the majority. So Croatian citizens and members of national minorities know this, that the responsibility of government of the state is at this time both on national minorities and on what is happening in the Republic of Croatia and on what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, because they are part of the majority. However, I have asked one question that is absolutely legitimate to ask the Croatian authorities. If in the Republic of Croatia we have even, what is unimaginable in other countries, that in the same city, example in Vukovar, children learn two different history. These teachings, written by aggressors, Serbs who occupied the Republic of Croatia, and other children teach official politics. As long as it takes, I'm curious. I'm interested in that part of the problem. Is history different? Is the relationship to those moments mostly our closer to history, the Homeland War, different? These things need to be changed. Because the defensive Homeland War, which was attended by all the troops of HOS, members of all national minorities, including the Serb national minorities, 9,000 troops, members of troops and Croatian defence forces, HOS and Croatian military and police forces. Therefore, these people, we should always call on them, call on them and their courage. But also the contribution to the country, and the key issue, what about the non-respecting minority agreement, which Croatia concluded in 2004, with international reciprocity agreements? In some countries, in most countries, the Croatian national minorities are to them relations are good, we have a problem and a constituent Croatian people in BiH where in a disastrous way, it is simply not the Croatian government to solve the problem. I'll just mention, he was recently in Croatia by Mr. Zigmanov and other members of the national minorities. The man cried out to heaven that the Croatian national minority has absolutely no rights, neither political, cultural or religious, but that, in fact, they have aggression and terror in the Republic of Serbia by Vojvodina, we are mainly talking about Vojvodina, mainly by the ruling ones, have not secured any place until the examples, I took the comparison, the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia has guaranteed three parliamentary representatives. They have mayors and mayors in 40 units of local self-government, 11 guaranteed mayors, per member of the national minority, just to compare, 37 kn is allocated in Croatia. And in the Republic of Serbia, the Kuna. Thirty-seven times more invested. And of the terror which he spends in Vojvodina, which is carried out according to Vojvodina, is unimaginable. I think we should talk about this and that should be talked about by members of national minorities who are in power in the Republic of Croatia. And do not write pamphlets and speak hate and an example in Vukovar when it is written how Serbs in Croatia live. To the place where the Treasure of Zadro died. Is that a provocation for people who gave their lives to the Republic of Croatia? The rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are largely fulfilled. And national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are part of the majority. And the merits of national minorities, mainly in the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia but also in other kinds of life are very important and they are part of the Croatian Corps, Croatian state. However, banning from some who are in a philosophical way who say it is foolish to ask what is with reciprocity, with an international agreement that the government must not even mention when Chetnik Vukic, president of the state at Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, Serbia, is not allowed to ask, so we must talk about this problem. We must talk about the problems of our national minorities but again, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, their parliamentary representatives are part of the majority. Minister, deny me if that's not true. And it is their responsibility to fulfill this international contract with the position of power of colleagues from Keatazi, Radin, Bilek, everyone sitting here, Mrs. Jeckov, all members of the national minorities, is responsible for you to point out what is happening in countries towards the Croatian national minority because you in Croatia exercise all possible rights where there is no country according to, there is no state in any country, I think that we Croats are at the highest level of giving the largest, one of the largest. Yes, you don't need a colleague, Bilek, to turn your head. In a small state, here's a list of countries where they're national, like you, most of them in power? Name me a country. You are in power under a special law, these Croats do not have the right, colleagues of Jeckov, in Serbia, in Vojvodina, they have no option at all. It can't be chosen, it can't, terror isn't on these people, it's terrorizing them in the worst ways. You, because of this, and you from the government, Prime Minister, must be a little louder and clearer and not that people when they come here, our national minority in Serbia, that their cry no one hears, except that a few officials are photographed with them. And to the provocations of the ruling majority like the pamphlet that Serbs live in Croatia in the place where Blago Zadar died, that should be condemned. This does not promote peace, it does not encourage co-existence but vice versa because all the constitutional obligations and especially when we talk about cultural, media freedoms, here are just mentioned earlier Serbian "News" that spread hate. All people labeling who are not on the trail to say another kind of attitude that can be expressed in democracy. And no one has in Croatia, very few people, and no one where hatred for national minorities is because someone, no, national minorities are wealth but gentlemen parliamentary representatives from national minorities, you are in power, you are responsible, you tend to strive less because of the interests of national minorities because I fight for these people in my area and very little have seen those who are representatives, for example. Serbian national minorities have come to ask how these people live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202071	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202072	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable State Secretary here present. So since the adoption of the 2002 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, this seems to be 16. The report on its implementation as well as the expenditure on State budget, related to 2018, preparing for this debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I have reviewed a series of events, as well as the provision of funding from the state budget for the needs of national minorities, and it has come to the conclusion that from year to year the implementation of the law satisfying both cultural autonomy and the rights to the official and public use of language and letters, the right to access to public media, as well as the roles in representative bodies, both at local and national level. Of course, if we were to dismember certain areas, there is always room for progress, but it is undeniable to strive, that the government is constantly working and fostering good co-operation with national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. In order to further improve the existing level of protection of the rights of national minorities, in 2017, the Government adopted an operational programme for national minorities from 2017 to 2020, operational programmes were also developed for the Serbian, Italian, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Albanian and Roma national minorities, and the programmes also set deadlines and holders of implementation activities in the protection and improvement of national minorities in the previous report. I think that's exactly what my colleague Radin was talking about, and some things that may not have been implemented in the satisfying way that the minorities might want. An e-system for monitoring and reporting the rights of national minorities at national, regional and local level has been established. This report for 2018 in one whole way, and it is methodologically the same as in previous years, shows the spending of funds precisely through the things I have stated, through education and education in the language and letters of national minorities, housing and return, ethnically motivated criminal acts and procedures related to discrimination, activities of the National Minorities Council, as well as bilateral cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and other countries. Co-ordination of the Office of Human Rights in cooperation with other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, so that it does not specifically list them here, the Ministry of Demography, the family, youth, sports, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the MUP. In 2018, the Ministry of Administration spent a total of 173 115 798,54 kn, which is actually an increase compared to the year before some 28.9 million kuna or maybe about 22% compared to 2017. If the part which speaks in detail and analyses education in language and letter of national minorities according to models A, B or C, one high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law has been achieved and further progress has been made in the field of education and education of children of Roma national minorities and their inclusion at all levels of the educational and educational system. Of course it can be, that it can be much better. A national strategy for Roma inclusion for the period from 2013 to 2020 has made one further progress in the field of education and education of Roma children at all levels of the education system, which is often referred to here, as well as problems related to the education and education of Roma children, fellow Kajtazi. The preschool programme, or preparation programme for the primary school, proved to be necessary for the Roma population of preschool age and showed quite good results. In 2018 993 Roma children were involved, for this amount about 5 million kuna was paid. This Report speaks of a continuous increase in the coverage of adult members of the Roma national minority in the descriptive programme throughout general and vocational education, but due to better results and competitiveness in the labour market and here it could be said that quite a step has been made. What I want to particularly apostrophe, I also said through a replica, and it is related to our bile debates when they were related to the Law on the ID card, i.e. the letter and language of minorities and the issue of ID cards, I said that there was a request somewhere in 3 358 in 2018, of which 3 184 IDs were issued in bilingual Italian and Croatian, while in Serbian there were 98, in Hungarian 36, Slovak also, 36 and Russian, in Czech 36, in Russian and Slovak by 2. I don't know now, maybe a colleague of Radin could explain why it's a little more important to issue bilingual identity cards for the Italian minority, while others have fewer, so I'd like to hear that, and I've asked the minister, and I don't know for 2019, what is the exact number of requests. With the right to show their faith and the establishment of religious communities, about 15 million kuna was spent somewhere, it is related to the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian, Macedonian, as well as to the coordination of Jewish municipalities and the Islamic community, which is one decent amount related to religious communities, but also a high level of right to show their faith as well as the right to establish religious communities along with other members of that faith. In the case of access to public communication funds, it should be noted, on the conclusion of a contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia where it particularly apostrophyd the Council for National Minorities, as something that is unacceptable, in that part of the Council for National Minorities, is not satisfied with the means of public communication, in particular with the HRT which do not fulfil these obligations, and, as a possible solution, the Council has actually pointed out the lawsuits. I find it a little strange that the Council, which is financed exclusively from the state budget, wants to seek satisfaction from HRT by means of a judicial procedure. My suggestion is that this is resolved by dialogue and when, in fact, all such perceived problems. This report discusses the representation of members of national minorities in the authorities and of administrative and judicial authorities. It should be said that even after local elections in 154 units of local self-government and regional self-government are represented by 308 members of representative bodies, but also have 49 deputy mayors and 12 deputy mayors. In the Croatian Parliament, although the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities speaks from 5 to 8 representatives of national minorities, a maximum number of 8 representatives of national minorities has been used. However, it should be said that it is evident that in some state and public bodies, the Republic of Croatia employs representatives of national minorities, which is, in fact, national minorities in terms of proportionality in relation to the number of national minorities, are not satisfied but I have some information that I publicly present here, which is that the report is exactly that, in reality, it is not because there are some citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are clearly representatives of national minorities but who do not wish to declare themselves as such. A total of 49 deputy mayors and mayors, from the ranks of members of national minorities, were elected in the elections, from the Roma national minority. When we talk about housing, it should be said that in 2018 there were 6 357 housing claims and a large number were transferred from 2017, here the report speaks of certain projects related to Glina, Benkovac and Vukovar, which are actually co-financed by EU funds and signed two other projects to provide 63 families. In 2018, the Central State Office provided 157 million kuna but also for those former tenants, around 2.2 million. As far as ethically motivated crimes and discrimination proceedings are concerned, they are in a slight decline which is very good. I say the Roma national minority also sees the fall of such crimes that actually encourages them. In the area of health care related to Roma, I think Roma who have civil status have all the same rights as other citizens, but one part is funded on the burden of the Republic of Croatia's budget. In 2018, the Ministry of Health also conducted certain educations or mammographic tests related to representatives of the Roma minority. I don't have enough time here to talk about a public defender's report when it comes to hate crimes, but I think we should be very careful here, given that there are 33 cases, any hate crime is certainly not necessary, it's not good, but in terms of violence, I think we should be careful here because violence, on any basis, and as such, should generally be judged, should be treated as such, but also have effective means for the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202073	Thank you. Time's up. Yes, thank you. [[Okay, thank you very much, maybe in the replica, thank you.]] The SDSS representative club has requested participation in the debate, MP Draga Jeckov will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202074	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. State Secretary, sir. Here, for members of the national minority I belong to, more than once here in the most negative context, it is mentioned that it is also not surprising, it is not surprising not even to react the chairperson to exactly such insults, so this report certainly on the implementation of the Constitutional Law for us, the national minorities, represents the top and most important legal framework in achieving and the measure of respect for the rights of national minorities. For the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law in 2018, therefore we have an increase of 20.9% more, which is therefore an increase compared to 2017, certainly that is a significant amount, a significant increase and that is what is commendable. But I also said in my replica that what is important to point out is that it has also been noted on the parent board, whose member I am, that the report uses expenditure data with the funding of national minorities' rights related to the rights under other laws rather than the rights arising from the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. For example, housing funds are related to the Household Law, the same applies to the financing of religious communities why funds are provided by the Treaty on Religious Communities and through the Commission for Religious Communities and not through the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. The report shows that for national minorities, 15 million kuna was spent on the position of the Ministry of Culture, and 35 million at the position of the Ministry of Education but the national minorities are not fully aware of what these funds were spent on so that the amount mentioned above for the implementation of the Constitutional Law is far smaller and I believe that this should be taken into account and be precise when the funds are being spent for the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law. The constitutional law, as we know, prescribes a wide range of rights but still lacks its full implementation so that the report speaks of figures and figures, in which areas it has achieved satisfactory progress, which it is not but which lacks measures and proposals to resolve or improve the situation. So that's what makes this report incomplete after all. The report does not explain enough why in some segments, why there is no consistent application of the Constitutional Law. A positive shift and step forward can be seen in the adoption of operational programmes for national minorities whose main purpose is to improve the implementation of existing and raise the level of protection of minority rights with envisaged activities and deadlines for their implementation. Therefore, the Constitutional Law is thus implemented that it was necessary to specify precisely the operational programme of the Government to be implemented. What is positive should certainly be pointed out, which is the work of the Council for National Minorities, which deserves special consideration and commendation and within whose jurisdiction we certainly believe that the proposals are constructive, aimed at implementing the Constitutional Law, and the reactions were timely and were concerned about the position of national minorities. This report points out that minorities and their position are important and some moves and events in 2018 do not exactly contribute to this, in 2018 interethnic relations are not significantly changed, negative trends and intolerance of backward ideas, often motivated by hatred and encouragement to violence, the Ombudsman also warned in her analysis, in which she stated on the basis of data that Serbs remain one of the most endangered ethnic groups in the Republic of Croatia. Although in some categories the number of problematic cases has decreased, in others it has increased, which leads us to conclude that the trend of negative historical and revisional and anti-Serbian trends continues in society. The events that Serbs wish to be told that they as their culture, our language and our letter, and at least political action, are not welcome in the Republic of Croatia, have been recorded. In particular, they worry about statements and procedures which have characteristics of ethnic impatience by public figures and the lack of public conviction and sanctions of such behaviour. In 2018, several dozen verbal threats and insults were again recorded at the expense of Serbs and Serbian institutions and Serbian representatives. Most of 2018, especially the period of late spring and early summer, marked the referendum of the citizens' initiative 'People decide'. As signatures were collected which were not finally collected enough, in the second half of May as the main motivation for people to give their signature, activists of this citizens' initiative, it is rare that instructions are precisely the reasons against Serbs and against Pupovac. In 2018, they marked hate shows against minority groups in general which were manifested in inappropriate speech and hate speech in the public but also in hate acts. In 2019, this trend was, unfortunately, more advanced. As regards the use of the language and the letter, the resistance to the use of Cyrillic and the rough stigmatisation of the Cyrillic letter, it marked 2018, 2019, and 2020 will certainly not be missing on this issue. Especially when it comes to the equal and official use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in the town of Vukovar, in 2018 and 2020, we have an unchanged situation and a clear sign that it does whatever it wants, that it does not respect its own institutions. Of the 27 units of local self-government that should comply with the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, it is evident that the units of local authorities have largely fulfilled their obligations until, for example, the Municipality of Gračac in 2018 or 2019 or 2020, despite the fulfilment of the legal conditions, we have heard that 45% of Serbs have yet to comply with the provisions of their statute on the use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, nor has the law been applied, for example, the setting of bilingual panels on the municipality building. So, Gracac municipality, do whatever they want. The city of Vrbovska has a consistent status with the law but no progress has been made with regard to the application, no bilingual inscription boards have been placed on the municipality building. Moreover, as already said, it is important to point out that the use of language and letters in procedures before the administrative bodies is low and unchanged compared to the previous period. We have just had the opportunity to hear an esteemed colleague, Babic, who spoke about the number of national minorities' cards and the number of credit cards for the Serb national minority, to be surprised by such a small number, I wonder why he is surprised, so here I dare explain to him that the reason is that the justified fear of Serbs in Croatia who are having doubts about the negative atmosphere is to have discomfort because of Cyrillic documents, although let's say no points of contact with the '90s because they were not even born at the time. In 2019, as an obvious example, we had in Uphill, which is therefore one of the most embarrassing parts of that year. In addition, the specific problem is that there is a municipality and a settlement on the entrance to the municipality and a settlement despite legal provisions on the use of minority language and letters, and that is exclusively in the Croatian language and Latin letter, this problem is considered at the the thematic session of the Committee on Human Rights, it has been observed that in the statutes of certain units of local self-government the right to use the language and letters of national minorities is governed by the provisions of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters and, contrary to the Constitutional Law, the law does not provide for sanctions for municipalities and cities which have not implemented the law and which have not entered into the statutes a provision on the rights of national minorities to the equal use of languages and letters. As regards language and letter education, it is certainly positive to form a specific sector and according to an official report in 2018, at all levels and by all educational models, 3 409 members of national minorities were educated in 70 institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202075	Thank you. Time's up. The National Minority Representatives' Club reported for participation in the debate, two MPs will speak on their behalf, the first representative Furio Radin and will share the debate with him, MP Bilek. [[Step Jeckov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202076	Thank you very much. If the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, if it had to be defined, then it would have been defined by serving a corny, already corny phrase or definition of statistics to show a lot, but what is important, it does not show. Like bikinis. My colleague Bilek will say what he shows, and he will commend what is to be commended for having things that should be highly commended, and these things relate mainly to the financial side of this report. However, we have one whole series of problems concerning this other part, because one part of this report refers to the spending of funds and the other concerns the rights of national minorities. Something has already been said here in a previous speech by counterpart Jeckov, but the fact is that local self-government has not applied the law. That is, and I will say before the city which is the biggest subject of the dispute, Vukovar, is not subject to the law and the state fails to impose law, which is devastating to the state. Now I hear it's in Grazac, I mean in Vrgorec too, so that fact actually speaks of an atmosphere. This atmosphere can be most plastically described by the history of this Constitutional Law. The history of this constitutional law is, in fact, a history that dates back to the early 1990s when this constitutional law, which was then called the Constitutional Law on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, was passed under the pressure of the international community, in '91. and partly in the 7th month. '92. A year. The law was passed and praised to God that it was passed so that the Croatian state would be recognised. So he helped the Croatian state to be recognised as the existence of national minority representatives, whatever they think different from nationalists to sovereigns and very well talked about by counterpart Vučetic, very strongly, is that, today, representatives of national minorities contribute to the stability, political stability of the state. Without representatives of national minorities today, there would actually be no figures, if the Parliament were to act, it should be up to the new elections, and again to the new elections, because there is no such context in Croatia that allows the majority, the creation of one majority, to be clear, without members of national minorities who, as counterpart Bulj said, are in their own particular way, which are part of the Croatian state. They are very much part of the Croatian state. Here's my colleague, Bilek, tells me that my five minutes have passed and then before I give him my word to answer the question of my colleague Babic from before, which is why personal cards are more wanted in Istria than in other counties. Because there's no problem in Istria having a bilingual card, that's the first. Second, we've had a regression since '91, so we don't go defining now what was before the '90s, come on. Why? Because it was real territory back then, everyone had bilingual cards, both Croatians and Italians, and today many Istrians would like to have a bilingual card even though they're not Italians but they can't have it because the law says otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202077	The Continuing Exhibition will be taken over by Representative Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, there have been a lot of words here today and a lot about how and how they can or work or do not work representatives of national minorities and about supporting the Croatian national minority in countries outside the Republic of Croatia, so I have to say that there are constant meetings of intergovernmental mixed committees where we have bilateral agreements and therefore thank the Government and ministers at support, and there are active participants, namely representatives of national minorities, not only about the rights of national minorities here in the Republic of Croatia but also about the rights of Croats outside the Republic of Slovakia, on this side and intensity, and I hope that we will be able to conclude bilateral agreements that Croatia 5 with our neighbouring countries, as well as with the Czech Republic and the Republic of Slovakia, and we are actively working on it. As for the separation by a member of the national minority, he would only like to warn dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no separation by the head of the population, neither by Croatia nor by a member of the national minority. Finance is set aside by projects, we have a Alliance for National Minorities where criteria, methodology, are extremely clear which I think is one of the few if not the only institution of the Republic of Croatia that, if some programme has not been implemented, has returned to the state budget. Also, thanks to all the people who work there. So, it works by projects, and I have to say that I am proud to be a representative of the Czech and Slovaks in the Croatian Parliament, our citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who can tell by how many members of these national minorities are at the top of writing projects, and here are the thanks and seminars that we conduct together with alliances, with our institutions, associations, but also with the support of our ministries and thus educate people on how to write projects, how to do all this. We have also implemented this funding through three ministries, economy, agriculture and there are the funds that have been invested in areas populated by national minorities, not only to members of national minorities but to all citizens there. And regional development, which is the third ministry where units of local self-government pulled out for roads, for homes, for institutions not national minorities but for infrastructure institutions used by all citizens there. Likewise, the OPGs, all those living in those areas, as well as economic operators. Of course, there have been some problems, we are still in the negotiations of HRT, the newsrooms for national minorities, as fellow Furio said, well, statistics are solid, but there is a lack of what should be filled, meaning, lack of a quality program, not only in the information work, there is a lack of education, that we do not say about the education itself where publishing and new textbooks occur, and now that we have everything, members of national minorities have to translate all the textbooks so that they can be used in education in the language and letter of national minorities, so we are here for a year behind and there we need great support from the ministry and government. As for the operational programmes, I think that together with this government, one step has been made where, above all, members of national minorities along with their institutions, here I personally with the advice of representatives of the Czech and Slovak national minorities, where everyone, meaning the presidents of the Czech Union, the Slovak Union, directors of institutions, all of us have created and worked together with the Government, with the ministries. The results are seen although this programme unfortunately goes in one piece and for the sake of this situation, one part of the work may say, the inability of certain things will not be implemented until the end of which I am extremely sorry, but I believe there will be an opportunity to continue it. And what I would like to say for the end, and what I would like to say, the report, just as a report, is well written, I am sorry that we didn't spend everything we've drawn up in that year, but I hope that in the community, respect for each other, both colleagues and fellow MPs, all the citizens of the Republic will have an even better and better quality report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202079	I'd just ask you to stick to the planned duration of exposure. The GLAS representative club also requested participation in the debate, Goran Beus Richembergh will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Every year we have a good opportunity to discuss the position, rights and consumption of these rights when it comes to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, it is good, because the rights of national minorities are not only constitutional but general social fluids not only of the Croatian state but also in the history of Croatian society. But we need to know that members of the national minorities are actually getting less and less as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are for various reasons, not only because of emigration, not only because of poor demographic measures, not only because of the decline of birth but also because of assimilation and because of emigration. National minorities in this regard are even more affected because many national minorities were concentrated in the 1990s precisely in the areas that suffered the most from aggression, from occupation, from therefore war activities and later, with an ad to this seen in the demographic picture in particular Slavonia also had major demographic losses. A colleague Furio Radin, speaking of the history of the Constitutional Protection, mentioned in fact that section from the early 1990s when, in fact, because of the pressure of the law, one framework was defined, a legal framework in which they were recognised and acted and then defined the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. But I would say no matter what it is, it's not entirely true. Namely, that it was only a product of pressure, of political pressure on the then political leadership of the Republic of Croatia, and that it sought and wished for something else in the first place, there was an opportunity to revise it and, if you will, to fully move that framework which is both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and the specific laws, on several occasions. It's '93. After the confession, back in '96. After the release of most occupied areas, already in '99. After a peaceful reintegration, however it did not happen. Why? I am inclined to believe that the fathers of the modern Croatian state and the constitutionalists really believed that recognition of existence and then the rights of national minorities were a very important constitutional element of Croatian statehood, if you will and statehood. The fact is, some may not know it, some forget, most I mean there is no problem with the fact that the descendants and members of national minorities throughout Croatian history have made an indelible contribution to the creation of all possible segments of social development, and if you want to create a modern Croatian society from the people's movement to today. So, from the time when the key national institutions of the Croatian people were created, from the Academy and beyond, when contemporary institutions of the Croatian state were created at a time of peaceful integration or reintegration or demilitarisation of the military landscape, in particular, since the time of Ban Ivan Mažuranić, and beyond. So, all those who felt that national minorities, a remethylatic factor, were losing historically, always insisting on Croatian chauvinists. And it's just amazing that at a time, so early in the 21st century when national minorities don't have any more, but also theoretical chances of being a remethylative factor, even in the environments in which they're still numerically expressed in their existence and, and presence, so they still insist on it. Actually, what's this about? Why chauvinism in the Republic of Croatia has a constant need to try to legitimise the denial of the rights of national minorities when they are only a few percent. Why? It's very simple. It's a curtile commodity. It's a slave that can make recommendations and argue with people who don't know much about it. It's a curtile commodity for those who need someone as a marked enemy or guilty of their problems. They do not, therefore, have the potential to talk about the Croatian future, about the quality of social, national, cultural and other development rather than stick to this topic and we actually see that it is a very weak structure, so if you want ideas because it is completely anti-social and unmodern because it is not facing the future. Today, when only a few percentages of citizens living in the Republic of Croatia who declare themselves members of national minorities who are working hard to achieve prosperity in their community not only for themselves but also for society as such, and this has always been because they are always "in difolt", so by their own nature they had to invest 3 times more energy to achieve equality, so of course the results have always been better. So, in such circumstances to drive them as witches and to show muscles on them, it is actually very pathetic because real social problems are common problems for everyone, and most to Croats, ethnic Croats and all those who plead so because they all have the right to plead so. At EU level, a very important process is taking place, and this is a debate between the European Commission and the triggers of the so-called European Commission. SafePack initiative. It is therefore that the model which has the Republic of Croatia, but in one more general and simpler form, is defined as a general standard for all members of the Union as legal, legal and protection of national and language minorities. So here we come to that topic that nationalists sometimes use, especially chauvinists, why France doesn't have such legislation. So, interest is in the Republic of Croatia, the interest of the Croatian people is to make general standards at EU level, not because of us here because these standards are defined by extremely high-quality laws and relatively weak practices, but it is always so. It takes time to reach, so what's defined by law. It is because of the position of the Croatian national communities abroad and in Serbia or especially Serbia, because if Serbia has ambition to be an EU member then it will be and must be one of the elements of their path to European integration. And it is already in the negotiating chapters, and so it must be, but such an initiative and by defining at EU level will turn it into a general standard which will then be equally valid for Croatians in Hungary and Croatia in Austria and Croatia in Italy. That's why it's an interest of the Republic of Croatia and ours, if you will, national policies. It is the interest of Croats as a majority people and here and the interest of Croats as ethnic communities and minority peoples in other EU members. This policy is the best policy when it comes to preserving the rights of Croats in other countries, especially in Serbia. We kind of skip Montenegro because the small community itself is small, but this applies equally to it and to the position of the Croatian community in Montenegro. As regards the GLAS Club, we will support this proposal, of course, to accept this report, and I will now only take the opportunity to tell you a few names, Bartol Felbinger, Herman Bolle, Grigor Knight, Ljerka Šram, Dragutin Freudenreich, Josip Freudenreich, Walter and Norbert Neugebauer, Paval Ritter Vitezović, Ljudevit Gaj, Vatroslav Lisinski, Dimitria Demeta, Ferdo Livadić, Franjo Žuhač, Petar Preradović, Josip Juraj Strosssmayer, Juraj Haulik, Anton Bauer, Ivan Merz, Dragutin Gorjanović Kramberger, Villa Just, Nikola Tesla, Drago Lerman, Ferdo Korschutz, Josip Ivan Klekovsky, Ivan Žalni Zajekev, Jakov Epstein, Janko Kamum, Janko Šenko Šurštršt, Anton, Anton Švarštko Hevaršt, Andrštl, Anton Švarzil, Hevardí, Andršt, Hevard Pero Pirkel [[Intruder: Thank you]] Croatian giants rest in peace. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202081	Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic's club also reported for participation in the debate. Representative Zekanovic was supposed to speak. Since he's not here, he's lost his right to speak. Representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak on behalf of the Living Wall Club and let's change Croatia. Since he's not here either, he's losing his right to speak. The SDP advocates' club reported for participation in the debate, MP Arsen Bauk will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202082	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, the State Secretary, the Government's representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia has traditionally been discussed in the HS since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and it is always an opportunity to say something about the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, so it will be this time. There's more to it than the report. The report, I think, was quite well described by fellow Furio Radin when he compared it to the only item of clothing that reveals a lot, and hides most importantly, so is this report. Therefore, the SDP Club will take it into account as another contribution to the overall picture of the state of rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, but not as a complete report on what are the real situation, what is the real state of rights and the exercise of the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. He lacks a certain critical tone and, in that sense, a much more content and objective report by the attorney general when he talks about such things, about similar things. Of course, the government has the right to send something beautiful, beautiful, but we have no obligation to apologetic applause, to clap such a report. That's why we're going for the first time in 10-15 years. propose HS to keep the report informed, not to accept it. As regards this report, therefore, it was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Assembly on 22 August 2019. It's the date when that attack on the fans, or the guests of the cafes, was on the way down. It seems to me that was the very date of August 22nd. This was followed by a canon of a fellow member of the Pupovac to apologize after describing everything that was happening, and then, of course, in the media, it was during that period when this report went to the assembly to discuss whether the coalition would fall apart because of it, whether the SDSS would leave the government, whether this would be it. Of course, for the 12th time, nothing happened, and it's very simple and the reason. So I've said several times that what, minorities are, minority representatives have actually been since 2000. to this day, they have generally supported all the governments that, which were made up of the parliamentary majority. The exception seems to me to be part of the minority, the government led by Tihomir Oreshkovic, was not part of the parliamentary majority, some of which are all minorities, so including the Serb minority and representatives of Mr Raskovic, who was part of the parliamentary majority, and was also elected on the SDSS list. And I'd say about like this, so the representatives of minorities with the left governments are easier to negotiate on ideological issues, and with the right governments on financial issues. So this report also has in one part of it and the elements of the taximeter that shows us how much the cost is, how much is the financial price of the stability of the coalition, except that unlike my colleagues on the right, I don't think it's a problem, I think it's legitimate for national minorities to condition their support for the government with certain legitimate programmes for national minorities and I would like them to manage for even more, as is, of course, the legitimate right of all other groups chosen in HS and who support the government to also have the interest of their voters, the legitimate political interests of their voters condition the government's support that they solve some problems. I don't see the problem, I'm sure, and that's what my colleague Alexic said several times that he solved the question of people who have loans in Swiss francs to support the government too, and because they haven't solved it, he doesn't support it. Col. Škibol has conditionaled his vote for President Jandrokovic on the RBA Co-operation Act. Therefore, it is very incorrect to accuse or criticise the representatives of minorities because their support for the government is conditional on minority programmes, but it is also politically very legitimate to accuse HDZ who, when the opposition had a completely different rhetoric and a completely different story and should not, should not be forgotten. Besides, this idyll that was in Jasenovac two days ago took, I think, a day and a half. After a part of the ruling party collapsed on the President of the Republic who gave a notorious fact about the regime which, among other things, had its own fundamental objectives of the extermination of part of the national groups that were found in the territory that was then owned by the NDH. And of course to say what was clear in '91, which is that it was, of those who did Hos, in '91. the party military of HSP, except for the defence of the Republic of Croatia, aimed at restoration or part, or part or something else, or part or whole, of this entire regime and of the formation I mentioned. These are all legitimate, of course, political things and that is what needs to be pointed out. Secondly, I would still reduce the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia to one, one rough division, one visible and invisible, or those visible to a larger number and those less visible to a larger number. When we talk about what is visible to a larger number, the most important thing is the use of a letter and this letter of a minority, therefore, letters of a Serb national minority who, in 26, seems to me, the unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia has obtained the right to use language and letters equally, including marks at the entrance point in the roads, I'm not talking about boards, they're seen when you get closer, but the sign at the entrance to the site is seen and immediately when you drive through the car, and quite often. What it looks like when the law is fully implemented, we see the example of the Istrian County and the Italian national minority. But other than that, it seems to me, in two places in the Lower Lapco we still don't see that there are inscriptions at the entrance to a place where under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is satisfied, a satisfied number of 33% of Serb minority members that there are these, these signs on the roads. Because if that were the case, then we wouldn't, or I wouldn't argue too much about whether there should be Cyrillics in Vukovar or not. Okay, if we have a problem with Vukovar or if part of Croatian citizens is intruding in Vukovar, which is a problem with 26 other municipalities that were not yet the site of the Homeland War, such as Vukovar, there they are, and there is neither what is legally prescribed. Of course, the reason is, the reason is much deeper and is not very much spoken of, and this debate is an opportunity to, to say so. The Council of Europe does not, as a rule, talk about bilingualism as to the fact that members of national minorities do not know how to serve in the official language of the country in which they live, so certainly the members of the Serb national minority do not know how to use the Croatian language and Latin letter. In addition, Croatian and Serbian languages are quite similar, and Latin is written in both Serbia and part of BiH, which is called Republika Srpska, but it is about showing others who are coming into the area that other than the majority people in the area live and members of other peoples or other peoples, and that is why bilingual tables are there. Now, this fact that the problem in the Republic of Croatia is to show that in some parts of the Republic of Croatia our citizens also live, as the former president liked to say, the political Croats who use and the Cyrillic letter, I would say that it shows a certain regret in part of the Croatian public that they still live there. But instead of saying it clearly, then you're going around, on a detour to say it. Therefore, I think it is important that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities be implemented, that the Law on the Use of Language and Letters be implemented, and that there is no need for members of national minorities to show loyalty to the Croatian state. Loyalty to the Croatian state is shown by respecting the law, paying taxes and all of what is shown to be loyalty to the state, and this is certainly not manifested by banging a hammer on the board on which the Croatian coat of arms is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202083	The club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, independent representatives also signed up for participation in the debate, according to MP Veljko Kajtazi on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202084	... Looked back at my colleague Bulja, and I just wanted to point out that the Roma community in these areas is close to 700 years old. She has assimilated, accepted both language and tradition and the culture of the majority population. [[Speaker not enabled]] More than 80% of the Roma community is a Catholic religion, between 30% and 40% of Roma have mixed marriage and I think we've done very little, we could have done a lot more. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and the spending of funds in the state budget for the same year 2018 was sent before the meeting. is finally in the process. The report itself also contained a report on the spending of State budgeted funds for the same period of praise that was significantly greater than the previous year. This fact that, in the term of this Government, we record the continued growth of the commitments arising from the Constitutional Law is undeniable, although we cannot be fully satisfied with the application of it. However, I must point out that the fact that the funds are increased does not guarantee that all obligations under the Constitutional Law are met or that the problems of minorities are solved, as the report itself shows. Who, and every report so far, and this is full of flossula about continuous progress, which is often not supported in reality, and many of the problems of minorities, especially Roma national minorities, despite the increase in funds and the adoption of the Government's operational programme for national minorities, are open. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities also warned that the words do not show a realistic picture, especially those related to education, and that data on expenditure for funding the rights of national minorities are related to the rights arising from other laws, which is not a correct report. It is also very often not clear to minority representatives that we are not familiar with the way part of the funds is spent, especially at the position of the Ministry of Science and Education, which is an important issue of transparency because minorities bear a great burden of public pressure because of these separations. Key issues prescribed by the Constitutional Law also remain open. What is always highlighted is the representation of national minorities in state administration bodies, as well as the representation of minority content on public television. In the latter, we discussed several times in the context of the HRT obligation arising from the Treaty of Public Service with the Government, and countless sessions of the Council for National Minorities. Certain issues are very difficult and slow to resolve, and I ask the question when we will meet them if we continue to accept a report in which the pace of continued progress takes place with the ongoing dynamics. A particular problem is that a large share of the funds spent relates to the so-called so-called ". Soft projects that have very little impact on the situation in the midst of populated minority members, which are masqueradely underdeveloped areas with a high risk of poverty rates. In this context, I often stress that the problems of the minority population are not significantly different from the problems of others in these environments, and that all projects that minorities encourage are often related to infrastructure, as well as the availability of public services that are not satisfactory for all others. On the other hand, and in highly developed areas, such as the North of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Međimurje County, there are marked inequalities in the standard and living conditions between Roma and non-Roma populations, and the Assembly and national level should pay greater attention and coordinate what has been done at local levels. Unfortunately, I personally feel that it has not been done enough since the position of the units of local self-government is largely such that the central state's exclusive responsibility is to monitor and improve the position of national minorities. Since the application of the Constitutional Law depends greatly on the local level, I believe that here we should discuss what units of local self-government do or do not do, in which ratios co-finance central government investments in their environments, such as on all other projects. In particular, I think that the position and status of elected minority councils of the Roma national minority, as well as the status of associations and representatives who do not have secured working conditions by units of local self-government. As an example, the county with the largest number of members of the Roma national minority has not provided room for the work of the county council or any association. This neglect is also clearly visible on the page. 44 reports that clearly show that the Međimurje County stands out at least for the work of the councils of national minorities, or for all other counties, among which there are much more poverty. So it's no wonder that living conditions in Roma settlements in Međimurje are what they are. The key problem remains that in documents such as the national strategy for Roma inclusion we do not have a clear line of activity and responsibility and... in which something must be done, such as in an operational programme of the Government, which has proved to be a good way of cooperating. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Progress made in 2018 largely depended on exactly the operational programme, which highlights the priorities of all minorities, which is a good way of working and one that will hopefully continue in the future. Education remains one of the biggest problems for the Roma national minority, and besides the establishment of a sector for the national minority at the Ministry of Science and Education, since this year and a certain increase in scholarships, there have been no significant shifts when we talk about involving Roma children in preschool programmes that remove the problem of lack of knowledge of Croatian language. Research shows that we still have a huge number of school dropouts in higher classes against popular explanation that these are traditional and cultural problems. A survey co-ordinated by the government's National Minorities Office shows that the main cause of this is the unenviable social status of most Roma community members. From model C for the Roma minority, there is still nothing like a good example of not only the key if there are no clear responsibilities for implementing certain measures or obligations. At the same time, he has been continuously investing in various seminars and workshops, and a report on the Roma national minority said teachers attended various seminars on the Holocaust and show academy. We cannot learn from the report exactly what schools are and why these workshops do not include the study of Roma deaths in World War II if they are quoted as spending on the Roma national minority. As said in the discussion on the board, such vague and unrelated costs to the subject matter report are very much, and that seems to create the impression that more has been done than is real. This is also sought by the fact that funding the religious community is cited as financing real national minorities that are not exclusively related to the Constitutional Law. Religious and national minorities, or cultural autonomy of national minorities, are not the same as religious freedom and the work of religious institutions. Roma problems, as well as the minority in general, cannot be seen without cross-sectoral cooperation, and cooperation with local self-government units, and in both fields we have significant problems and lack of coordination. The reason for this is certainly because there is no clear more serious responsibility for everything that strategic documents suggest, as well as constitutional law. I expect that current crises will rationalise consumption, but will not stop what appears to be good in the implementation of the Constitutional Law. I have repeatedly said that the crisis of those socially endangered affects multiple times, especially when it comes to the approach to education of the Roma national minority. In this context, I expect fewer seminars and soft projects, and more of those developmental and concrete procedures aimed at improving living conditions as the cause of many other problems. Finally, despite the shortcomings mentioned by the Labour and Solidarity Club and the National Minority Club, the report accepts in this form, noting that, in addition to expenditures, special attention should also be paid to concrete progress in the implementation of the proposed and prescribed activities resulting from the Constitutional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202085	The HNS club also reported for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be spoke by representative Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202086	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected ministers, State Secretary, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to speak on behalf of the HNS Club today, and first I'm going to go after this report in part of the funding. For the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2018 173 million kuna was spent, which represents a significant increase compared to 2017. It's about 21% somewhere. In 2017, we had just over 144 million kunas. I am convinced that these are the exact figures and that these amounts have been paid to you regardless of what funds and by what law, they have been paid out of the state budget precisely for the rights of national minorities. The units of local self-government in which the use of the language and letters of national minorities is mandatory have largely aligned the statutes with the Constitutional Law, therefore mainly. Al should make efforts to promote awareness of the value of minority languages as an integral part of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There has been an increase in the number of bilingual identity cards issued, which has already been a speech here that certain national minorities in this are ahead of it until some do. So we have this situation that the most precisely of these bilingual ID cards are requested by members of the Italian, Hungarian, Serbian and Czech national minorities, but there is still the possibility that there are many of them who did not ask for it. A high level of right has been reached to manifest your faith, as well as the right to establish religious communities along with other members of that faith. In order to achieve the rights of national minorities to access the media, a positive shift has been made in the conclusion of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2022. We rightly ask ourselves how it should be reported, or whether it is just individual specialized emissions or whether it should be more under the regular programme to report on issues, on good things concerning national minorities. A survey has been carried out where it has been proven or found that the presence of national minorities in the media is only 1.6%, although we have 7.67% of the minority people, minority peoples. So there is this disproportionateness, but we should see which media they really have and HRT belongs to you and Croatian Radio, but there are those media that are certainly not so interesting because they are more commercially or sensationally oriented, but certainly should be reported objectively and more, but should not be enslaved by these measures, which means now and what is the relationship. The representation of national minorities in state administration bodies, judicial authorities and individual local units, that was the same thing as already said, is really insufficient. Therefore, increased efforts are needed to increase their share of state administration bodies was employed only 3.24 members of national minorities, which is even a stalemate compared to 2017, not some large but 0.1%. A total of 3,31% of national minorities were employed in local units obliged to employ members of national minorities on 31 December 2018. A cycle of expert seminars on the provisions of the Penal Code related to hate and hate speech for judges, lawyers, police, representatives of civil society organisations, has been organised in the area of developing tolerance and anti-discrimination and particularly related to hate crimes against national minorities, and in order to learn about the problem of hate crime and hate speech and legislation, as well as the phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia. It would also refer a little to the analysis of the implementation of the national Roma inclusion strategy for the period 2013 to 2020. This suggests continued progress in the integration of members of the Roma national minority in society, as well as their growing involvement in the activities that contribute to this. In this respect, activities were systematically undertaken in the fields of education, employment, inclusion in economic life, health care, social care, spatial planning, housing and environmental protection. But from what we see in the field, that's not enough. It is not enough because the Roma national minority is dissatisfied, the majority of the people living in co-existence are dissatisfied. First of all, we need to put an emphasis on the integration of that national minority. He's trying, he's investing, but sometimes it's not all about money. Sometimes we should actually start by ourselves to see what we can do each and every one of us in our midst for our neighbor because we can't say that we're not investing enough, they're not just funding issues. So the Ministry of Science and Education scholarships all regular high school students who are members of the Roma national minority with an amount of 5.00 kn per year. National minority students are co-financed to receive scholarships to all students of the Roma national minority of £10.00, 8 projects worth more than 8 million in children's transportation to educational institutions are financed. The kindergarten kids are on. But it's obviously not enough and it's not just the funds, it's what I was saying, integration and it has to start primarily from a part of the Roma national minority that they respect the laws of the country they live in. It must be understood that the laws apply to everyone, that they apply to the majority of the people, that they apply to the minority people, and that's the only way to integrate and start co-existence because a colleague was saying, 700. They're in that area. If you won't be working on it again after 700 years. It'll be like that again. We all have to run in that part and I'm saying it's not a basic asset problem because it's investing and from that part it's certainly possible to run something because 2506 children are early school age, going to kindergarten and there's a million and 800 thousand kuna. So, it stands out, tries, I won't go back to some of the things that have already been said, maybe I've been a little too long on it, but I come from a place where it's a very big problem. And in the end, I'm just going to add what's in the article. 15. The constitution, which is that they are members of all national minorities, guaranteeing their freedom of expression of nationality, free use of their language and letter and cultural autonomy. In the HNS, we believe that this is respected and adequate resources are allocated in accordance with the possibilities and therefore the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202087	Representative Marko Vučetic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202088	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In these almost two hours of debate on the report, almost everything the report says has been said. In part, the circumstances under which this report is being discussed today are also discussed. We have to admit two circumstances. The first is that the position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is improving, making it easier and easier to be a member of the national minority in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we must also admit that there are circumstances that do not deal with it. That there are constantly trends that want to bring down the degree achieved, the degree of national minority rights achieved and the level of development. It's because of these circumstances that arise, not from external factors, but from what's called, not internal factor, not internal enemy, but something is collapsing and happening inside the Republic of Croatia. Within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, there is an indication of those who refused to be human. Our basic determination is not that we are humans by nature in some kind of ontological sense that every man is a man by being born human. No, a man in his life can choose to stop being a man and unfortunately that happens. It happened two days ago, it happened in '41. And '45, '91. and 2019 and 2020 We have those who have stopped and agreed not to want to act as human on the historic stage. We have both representatives and not people like that in the assembly. These are all those who do not see human size in national minorities, do not see the civil size and do not see the size of the developing Croatian state. It is all those who, because of their inhuman dimension, choose to face every human diversity. They live in the illusion that they created these states. They can't create a country if the state is created by people. They live in the illusion that the state comes from weapons, the state does not come from weapons, nor is it guarded with weapons. The state stems from culture and stems from those who in every elevated historical situation between being human and not being human decided to be human, primarily to be human, not a Croatian scarecrow but to be human. Being human in the Republic of Croatia means also being a member of national minorities and defending the rights of national minorities and defending all human rights and all national rights throughout the world. Two-and-a-half years ago. I was the only representative here who stood up against attempts to deauthorize, to abolish, to doze the authorship of the Croats over the Bokela Navy and the Cola of Saint Tripun. I've almost gone crazy here on several occasions because I realize that it's human beings being realized through culture and that we can't deprive the culture of authorship. The only ones who can't be authors are inhumans, those who power themselves on something and some kind of wrong content that can never be restored. These are the contents that destroy human beings. In particular, 1945. We marked this year's 75th anniversary two days ago the breach of campers from the Jasenovac camp. You and the one who said "front mates" were people. Those who killed this man, our Sinyan, the guardians of an inhuman creation, such as the Jasen camp, they are inhumans and will always be inhumans. All those who feed on such ideology, all who try to tear apart such places because they think they will find themselves in such places, they are in error, they will find where they will find themselves in loss and in negativity. There is no human size where the atrocities took place, the human size endured that atrocities and was threatened by these atrocities but those who are bearers of beasts cannot now be represented in the form of nominalists and consider, for example, that Rafael Knight Bob, had nothing to do with the constitution, had nothing to do with the constitution, but the uprising had nothing to do with Croatianism. And no one in their own soul, in their history, believes in their vision that anything that was going on in that camp, which took place under these names and these people who decided at a historic moment to be inhuman since '41. By '45, they're powered by content that today's people turn into inhumans. Whoever agrees with Bobana, who agreed to the House Ready since '41. By '45, he agreed to be an inhuman and would defend only what was inhuman. We need to say something like that, these are the circumstances in which this is happening right now. These are circumstances in which we must not collapse, these are circumstances that do not belong to Croatia nor will they ever belong and all these inhumans, all those who decide through beastic mechanisms to act in human history, let them understand once and for all, Croatia does not belong to them and they do not belong to Croatia. Croatia belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is Croatia, it is written in the Constitution, it is written in the laws, it is written in the right history, not in the false memories of inhumans. These are not people who will never be on these content that they are now being fed on, they will not come to human size because human size pushes them away and encourages them to become beasts. Human size causes them. Human size is recognised in national minorities and therefore rises and believes that national minorities threaten the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is only threatened by those who do not belong to the Republic of Croatia. All those who do not belong to the Republic of Croatia should not leave the Republic of Croatia because they have never been in it, they came to the Republic of Croatia as Kumordinar George, as servants of some there lords, any or historical dead inhumans or living inhumans, but it upsets them with size, a human who comes from a country that is open to people, from culture, from language and encounters, from communication. Their communication is a weapon, their curse is a false memory, and their unimportantness comes as soon as they know themselves. It is the only, greatest and fortunate not so many non-essentialties in the Republic of Croatia. They are those who do not exist as human beings because they have decided to act as nonhumans. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia needs to protect itself, develop itself in its Croatia, develop in true history, and all those who have decided to deny the Croatian nation and Croatian national identity should simply say "you do not belong to Croatia, you do not fight for Croatia, you do not belong to history, you do not belong to anything because you are just, being nothing, you are nothing." National minorities are nothing, national minorities are Croatian citizens and they are if we speak in more or less Croatians, they are nothing more than they are just members of the Republic of Croatia and they are citizens of Croatia. In this 2018, 2019 and 2020, we continue to have those aspirations that deprive national minorities of their rights. The right to bilingualism, for what? Because it is not allowed to be fully RH in these areas. I've already said it's a paradox that those who take away rights are actually on the line of enemies of Croatianism. They're doing it. Croatia's enemies did not allow Croatia to develop on its territory. The Republic of Croatia has been defended, but because of these inhumans today, there is no living dynamism, full of state dynamism. Who's denying her now? So rule these people who are against the Constitution, against the law, in a particular case against national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202089	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. ... [[Sladolev's intrusion: Thank you.]] We'll move on, I think there'll be opportunities for everyone to talk. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Representative Miro Bulj has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202090	Thank you very much. Here's after what's in front of us and after what I've been saying on behalf of the club, after the ministers, it means proposing this report. The reports he gave, the fact is that in the Republic of Macedonia, national minorities have constitutional rights that in other countries, in few countries, they have so few countries that the historical speeches that have now been held, the copercanic conversions of people who have even been on the list, simply calling people inhumans because they ask questions about reciprocity, questions about people who live with them as national minorities, like me, proclaiming inhumans, more about these people and their humanity and the mentality of dictators and dictatorships that have long passed. I would really talk here about problems, here are the members of the national minorities who are in the Croatian Parliament in the majority, the representative majority, and here we are asking questions with the minister. Of course our voters, our citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the national minorities are one body, and that should not be repeated, the national minorities have given great pain. Well, here it is recently in the history of the Homeland War, many members of the Roma community, Hungarian, Czech, Italian, I don't know, they all gave great pain to the Homeland War, and they need to be talked about, in their troops. In the HoS which is a legal unit, during the I. Racan government was given a statute, a confirmed statute, and it is a legal unit and these guys gave their lives as members of both the Serb national minority and Hungary who also experienced a huge, Czech, Italian, all minorities who gave great pain in the Homeland War. And that's the way we need to talk. However, my question was about national minorities as authorities here, representatives of national minorities entering the Parliament under a special law because if it were under the general law, then probably wouldn't be numbered because on the general lists there might be more, I don't know what would happen if it were a matter of reciprocity and it's a legal question. I think that this question should be asked precisely by national minorities, national minorities to ask that question and that those across the government and governments from the countries of origin, which are examples, the Serb national minority, to see the rights of Croatian citizens i.e. Croatian national minorities in Vojvodina, for example or in Montenegro. It's a legitimate question, it's not a question that we want to degrade national minorities. No, it is a legal question to talk about and it is good for national minorities within the Croatian Corps, within the Croatian state that contributes to Croatian society as I said in the Homeland War, in the creation of Croatia, and in the economic, economic, scientific, cultural and any other form. However, hatred and declaring inhumans from those who ask why there is no reciprocity, for example in Serbia, where we do not have a representative, while for example, I have cited the Serbian national minority, I live with these people daily and many these people, most of these people are more than good citizens, more than good, contribute to society. I live with these people and I was born and I have no problem with these people and they gave great pain to the Homeland War, only 9,000 people of Serbian nationality participated in the HoS, in the Croatian military and Croatian police. And so are the other nationals. So there's no problem with what someone wants to impose that we're inhumans. And while they were with me on the list, they hugged me and kissed me. Praised for defending the national interest. They're your roll-overs. And banning someone from calling, banning someone from asking questions from the minister what about the reciprocity of 2004, why do Croatian citizens in Vojvodina not, in Serbia, have their representatives in parliament while three members of the Croatian Parliament are guaranteed here? Which is why we have 40 and a few mayors and mayors in local self-government here and we have none in Serbia, we have signed an international agreement. For what? These are the questions I ask, which is why 1 kn stands out for one member of Croatia in Serbia, the national minority here, £37, these are questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202091	The question's up. Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202092	Dear Representative Bulj, I would like to point out to this occasion the discrimination of truck drivers who are in a situation that whenever they return from abroad they have to live 15 days in isolation and are actually being tortured, I call on the state to immediately lift this isolation system, to enable all truck drivers and their families to live a normal life. They are a group in a society that is discriminated against and not talked about at all and if they are deprived of all possible human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202094	I would say to Mr. Pernar that this topic is important and should be discussed, it is one of the measures where, of course, freedoms are taken, but trucks, truck drivers, lorries and Croats and members of national minorities and Serbs, all drive, so that, therefore, the general question, but this is a report that is very important and important and where we have to ask important questions of co-existence and on this issue of yours, you will ask Minister Beros because you are in good communication with him on the measures, as far as you agree, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202095	Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202096	This is a sad Mr. Bull, I'm just going to say this, you're right, the Croats have a Hungarian one-man parliamentarian in Hungary, how does he not have a right to vote at all? What is Serbia, etc., you said well, there were foreign volunteers, in this House are the children of former Yugoslavs, genetic anarchists and others who forget that this country was occupied, occupied by the 1990s, you had militias, an army, which minority has the advantage? 80% of JNA were Serbian personnel, what are we talking about here? Why is the truth here every day spit and here in court true? We repeat the Serbian mythomania as the historical truth. That's HTV, the parliamentary representatives here, it's not just Hungarian, Italian and other minorities, it's sitting in this Assembly, half the minorities are former Yugoslavs, what are we talking about, former followers of the UDBA and the KP? This is a historic lie, this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202097	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202098	Col. Glasnovic, I think that labeling is not necessary at the moment when we are discussing national minorities. Here we need to tell the truth and the role of national minorities in the Homeland War, that we have fought for a free and independent Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War and all members of national minorities and citizens and members of the Croatian people. And all of these people need to be punitive, but it's absolutely right to ask questions, for example. What makes two history studies in Vukovar? One is Serbian, which is written and official, Croatian. It's divided into Vukovar, that's legitimate questions. Why is the Croatian national minority in Serbia terrorised and has no rights? This is a legitimate question for government representatives because we have an international reciprocity agreement that is not respected and that is a legitimate issue. And that's what we need to talk about, it's not an inhuman question, it's an absolutely legitimate and human question and the right of us parliamentary deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202099	Thank you. Representative Veljko Kajtazi asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202100	Thank you. Dear colleague, we must say that this is my third term, nine years alone in this House, and I have not heard one of my colleagues mentioning that the Roma were in the Homeland War. It has always been said and they have listed national minorities, and for the Roma, others have been known to say, and I am taking the opportunity to thank you, as well as to meet you, after 30 years, the Roma community last year published a beautiful book, "Roma in the Homeland War". This year we are also preparing a beautiful documentary also "Roma in the Homeland War." I only had a chance to tell you and thank you for the first time in nine years that I heard someone mention Roma in the Homeland War, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202101	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202102	It is our obligation to mention these moments of the creation of the Croatian state, Croatian citizens and citizens who have made themselves available in the Homeland War and, above all, to emphasize national minorities, from the Serbian, Hungarian, Roma, Italian, to stress everything because we are also part of the Corps, to highlight all the people who defended Croatia, to take the rifle in hand and from the great Serbian Chetnic occupier and therefore... And foreign volunteers from other countries, absolutely, all defenders, from France's Nicoliere, of all people, foreigners who came here to defend their country, and therefore I am saddened that there were all people, all nations, foreign citizens and national minorities in both the troops and the HOS and the Croatian army and the police, all of them, which is worth the embarrassing statements given in the place where they should bow to the victims as in Jasenovac, that a plate should be thrown to the murdered Hos's. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's embarrassing, it's humiliating while the Shoskocan brush in Vukovar still stands that monument.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202103	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. [[Intruder Bull: Thank you.]] Representative Drazen Srpak also applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202104	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, State Secretary. Since the declaration of independence, the Republic of Croatia has implemented a high level of care policy for national minorities. The difficult times of war and often the accusing media inscriptions were only an additional motive for the Republic to prove to all its citizens and to the whole world that the democratic and sovereign state of equal citizens. In the Republic of Slovenia, minorities are not only equal citizens, but as we will see, they are encouraged to preserve their specificity and their culture, heritage intact and passed on to the next generations. A concern for minorities is a civilization standard that we all have to guard and raise each generation to a higher level. I should also point out that, for this purpose, the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities is in 2018. A total of 173 million kunas spent, almost 20% increase. The exercise of the rights of national minorities to access public media is crucial and the exercise of that right has been achieved by the conclusion of a contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2018-2022, which has agreed on programme obligations for the publication of content intended for national minorities. As regards the protection of cultural heritage of minority members, the Ministry of Culture financed 73 programmes totalling over 8 million kuna in 2018. In the Croatian Parliament, the prescribed representation of representatives from the ranks of members of national minorities has been fully achieved. According to the Ministry of Administration, 2018 G. increased financial separation from the budget of local self-government units at the level of the Republic of Croatia for councils and representatives of national minorities is visible. The Alliance for National Minorities noted that certain problems existed in the exercise of the right to the official and public use of the letter and language of national minorities and certain difficulties exist in the implementation of the right to access to the media and the role of councils and representatives. On the other hand, we have achieved a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. In 2018, cultural autonomy programmes for 84 minority institutions and associations with a total amount of 34 million kuna were co-financed. As regards housing care and the return of members of national minorities in 2018, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has allocated almost 160 million kunas for the purpose of this care of all users, including more than 2 million kunas for the housing of former tenant rights holders, including members of the Serb minority. The report shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking to implement the Constitutional Law on Minority Rights and to support and finance the needs of these same minorities with significant budget funding. Finally, representatives of minorities of the Republic of Croatia as part of the parliamentary majority co-create policies towards minorities. It is noticeable and also expected that due to the various historical circumstances of the development of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of all rights of national minorities is not entirely equal and equal in every corner of the Beautiful One. However, it is just positive examples that we need to be patient and with areas where we face certain difficulties. To achieve our goal, which is the Republic of Croatia with all happy and satisfied citizens, patience is needed first and foremost. We are aware that, apart from the legal solutions and the tenacity of the state bodies, it takes time and that it is a process. In addition to patience, healthy communication is needed as well as work on communication itself. Learned by our examples from Međimurje County, we know that we need to be careful that criticism aimed at achieving peaceful co-existence does not become a hate speech but that every criticism is not misread as a hate speech. Kolega Bulj said that he lives with members of the Serb minority, I live personally in my city with members of the Roma minority who are almost 600, 700 and I must say that we respect each other, respect and work every day to improve that communication so that everything that is not good is rejected and all that is good, we emphasized and to succeed in building peaceful co-existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202105	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202106	We heard the word “equality, ” a smoke screen. We have 3 million Croats out there, hundreds of thousands have double citizenship, and how many vote, how many vote? Maybe 20 grand. This championship of Croats has neither the right to vote nor the right to private property seized during the former rule. They gave billions of kunas, they come here every year, they had actions where 10,000 orphans took care of it, they're good when money is to be paid, when it's to be included in a democratic, economic process, just a smoke screen. There is the greatest positive discrimination against Croats in Croatia and Croatia outside Croatia. I ask you now how many Croats you have in the Serbian parliament, in Hungarian, etc.? When we talk about language, countries have languages and tribes have dialects. It's not the same boranium as the pods, in that matter, it doesn't exist, that equality, it's just a smoke screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202107	Thank you very much, the answer of the respected Serbian representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202108	Comrade Glasnović, I agree with you, the minorities should precisely be a bond in this process that needs to happen in some countries so that there our people who live should also have the same rights as those here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202109	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202110	Thank you. Dear colleague, I will bear in mind that you said that in your place and you are also the mayor of the city where Roma national minorities live, I must say that it is true that unlike other places in Međimurje County, you have a very different situation and that there is a certain cooperation between you and a member of the Roma national minority. What has disappointed me, that is, that there is not yet a member of the Roma national minority who is employed in the city administration and during and in the public institutions of the Republic of Croatia, we have only 5 members of the Roma national minority who are employed. My personal opinion is that it is a data that is astounding and disappointing. And my great desire is to have at least one employee in Međimurje County so that we can show an example of good practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202111	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Srpak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202112	A fellow Kajtazi, a lady from the Roma village, is employed through the EU's "Learn" programme in our city. She's very pleased, happy she's working, I believe we'll be able to extend two more years of implementation of the Desire programme, she'll continue to work and as far as others are concerned, means countless Roma are working in public works, in a contract of action, etc. So we're making sure that in any way we help and that the woman who's always been that Rommie won't work, that she won't be like that. So we're offering a job and I can work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202113	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I think that in the context of the debate on the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law, it is important to point out the need for a strong response and the processing of hate and hate speech crimes and ethnically motivated hatreds, which is something also mentioned in this report. In particular, the responsibility in public space is of course the representatives, politicians, local officials, but also journalists, media representatives and those analysts or quasi analysts who form public opinion because our word echoes, it directs and fills this public space with messages that form public discourses about the most vulnerable, discriminated against, of different, disproved, therefore to those who belong to minority groups whether they are ethnic groups or minority on any other basis. So, if it's allowed for politicians, they'll think about it, or they can think of citizens, if the sanctions for their incendiary claims full of prejudice or impatience, there isn't, or if they're left behind, then some citizens will think it's allowed for us, and in particular it's allowed for us who wear scars from the war, so I can think. I may also think that by plowing down on the people of Downside at Knin who in one local cafe watched a football game or the transfer of a football game, they would then physically and verbally attack them and threaten to correct the injustice that had been done to them, therefore not for this possible injustice social depression, life anxiety or imperceptibility, blames those people, their natives, Serbs, Roma or therefore members of any other minority people in Croatia. These people did not take what they belonged to, it should be made clear that in the divisions of such species they profit from the political options that lead in poverty and hopelessness to minorities, as well as of course the majority people. In what they do, there's nothing patriotic, there's nothing state-of-the-art and there's nothing progressive. If a few months ago from a member of the ruling Party in Rijeka we heard hate messages against Serbs, then the statement as well as any other statement by any other politician or person who has access to the media whose word is heard, heard and transmitted deserves, of course, condemnation and sanctions, and not that the person is then giving us the testimony and telling us what she meant, explains, continues to be entangled and further discriminated against and conveying hate messages. So, people who are motivated by racial and ethnic hatred, impatience towards anyone, is not a place in politics, is not a place in this House, and I don't think they'll even profit from their messages and that we won't look at them in this House after the next parliamentary elections whenever they are. Therefore, hate for any minority, on any basis, cannot be justified, nor justified in any way, in any way, because hate speech is not freedom of speech. The special responsibility in the context of freedom of speech is, therefore, on the media, above all on media owners, editors and journalists and the special responsibility is on public radio, which some colleagues and colleagues have talked about today, and it has a lot of problems in understanding the concept of acceptable and unacceptable when it comes to minorities. Not once heard and tolerated in the HRT programme, he encouraged a speech that had nothing to do with democratic principles and standards and which should be punishable by all ossuaries, and about private media, about some quasi journalists, quasi shows, etc. Unfortunately, the Council for Electronic Media was not properly manifested, and these should be sanctioned and should be permanently removed from the public space. Of course, the laws are not perfect, the practice is even worse, and in times of this severe economic crisis and uncertainty that is just following us are loud demands for reducing the funding of associations, including associations dealing with the protection and promotion of the rights of national minorities. I have no doubt that many have looked forward to it and that many will applaud such announcements, so what we Croats say we have to finance from the budget. When cuts are discussed tomorrow, and as far as we can see, I will bet that in this context as well as in culture and social rights, those who have the least are not the first to be hit, and among the teams that have the least, unfortunately, are national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202115	Thank you. And on your exhibit we have a replica of the respected representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202116	Miss... I don't know if you ever reacted, this country is 80% Catholic country, we have performance, for example. Mr. Frljić pays the Croatian tax collector for his performances, where the cross turns into a hackcratz and where the priest rapes the nun on, on the cross. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that hate speech? Is spit to Croatians who have banned, defended the Croatian state in BiH, where they spit daily, these four choir areas, is that hate speech, is it true, is it true hate speech, and who is represented by this public defender, when she talked about these individual cases? Every day a historical truth is raped in this assembly. That's not what you're talking about. When did you talk about these mass graves by Markushevec, Gracans, Zaprešić? Croats killed, thousands, thousands of Croats. Is that historical truth, is that a lie and manipulation? I'm asking you why the selective truth? We look into the past with one eye, blanks, we're cold Let's look with both eyes. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Is that hate speech?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202117	Your Honor, there is no answer. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so the next debate will finally be the respected representative of Steve Coley, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202118	Dear Croatians and Croats, distinguished representatives of national minorities, and you dear citizens of all who watch today, HS, I must tell you that you will once again attend an epic struggle by members of most Croatian people who, behold, must prove that he is not a Ustasha, that he does not hate, that he loves his national minorities. In order to best show you a Croatian man who suffered from 1918 to 1995 a great Serbian evil, who was able to gain the courage to resist this great-serb euthanasia and aggression, that today he still has to fight the revelations of the past that do not give peace to this young and barely-scared Croatian state to take away and take away some of their goals. Dear minorities, you who have contributed to the defense of our homeland to the Republic of Croatia, who side by side with us have been from Peđa Misic from Vukovar to all of them and others, thank you to your friend Drobac for keeping my back in all actions and you are from Vukovar. What about those other people who weren't? They are the same others who will not give you comfort to you members of various minorities, nor at your funerals because they will not respect your religious rituals, will defend your brother Croats from the Homeland War of the Croatian State for which we fought together. Some say we're dumb, stupid, unwitting nationalists, behindrs, yes, we're dragging some of our past burdens, shackles around our legs. Let's pull. And I'll show it to you in my own way. What am I talking about here? So before the war I worked as many in the former Yugoslavia, I worked for this military industry, I worked in Djura Djakovic tanks that destroyed us. In the Homeland War my brother was killed, who? Members of the Serb national minority. They didn't just kill him. They massacred him. It came to this point that he was slaughtered and his eyes pulled out. His killer and other murderers were abolized by this same Croatian state of mine. And even in absentia. They didn't answer at the command line either. Our commanders are. At the moment of reconstruction, in peaceful reintegration, those who killed our own, we gave it to you, we gave you Erdutian agreements, we can give you everything, but we can't give you the great Serbia you dreamed of. I'll give you another example. You took down my house, my house, you ruined my mom's house. My mother didn't get a renovation. Here's a solution. Do you know who the reviewer is? Milutin from Vukovar. A reference to my mother, Milutin, from Vukovar, a reviewer. So where do I live, Croats and Croats? How many million kunas do we give to the Serbian National Council? Where do they spend that money? They don't spend on the culture of the Serbian people, they don't spend on defending those who are the most vulnerable group, they don't spend that money in Podrinj and Ada. Do you know where they're being spent? In Negoslavi Bobota, Trpinj, Borovo Selo, in those places where the most Croats, where they were killed and killed, will not be in these other places. Who is the protector, who protects national minorities in Croatia? Like me and those who created and fought for this Croatian state and I fight for those Serbs from Podvinj, I fight for the last Italian in Croatia, and that was Vittorie Fraccaro, defender of Vukovar, and he's dead. That's what I'm fighting for. And those who live on the Croatian state budget to make Croatian state through.../incomprehensible/... you do not fight for civil Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And we've got brains, we're not fools, we're not dumb, not as dumb as some moral Marxists. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202119	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Robert Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202120	Dear Mr Vice-President, Honored Ministers, the esteemed State Secretary is therefore the Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for 2018, indeed one very extensive document, the most important part of which is therefore the operational programme for, the Government of the Republic of Croatia for national minorities, which I consider to be the most important document for national minorities since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2002. So, this very operational programme, as seen in the 2018 report, has made it possible to make one enormous progress in implementing the operational rights of many national minorities, as well as my Hungarian national minorities, but the point of this agenda is an analysis, which is what we have done in this report, how much money we have allocated in 2018, and I have prepared this individual debate for another perspective perhaps which some of mine before me have called out here. I wanted to inform the esteemed Croatian Parliament that the rights of Croats are in Hungary. The Croats in Hungary according to the 2011 census are 26.774, and according to their own estimates, we are good, there are over 80,000. So 80,000 Croats in Hungary. Their main institution is called and listen well to Croatian State Self-Government. The Croatian State Self-Government in Hungary is the roof institution of the Croatian minority in Hungary and the institution, so it is crucial to implement the autonomy of the Croatian minority in Hungary. The systems, therefore, include this very Croatian state self-government, appoints directors, employs employees in the next 10 institutions of the Croatian minority in Hungary. One is kindergarten, elementary school and dormitory, in Santou kindergarten, elementary school, gymnasium and student home in Peču, kindergarten, elementary school in Sambotelj, everything is in Croatian. Croatian Cultural Centre in Budapest, Croatian Scientific Institute in Hungary in Peču, Croatian Club August Shenoa in Pečah, Croatian Cultural Sports Centre in Hungary, Upper St. Martin, the Croatian Cultural Institute in Hungary, the Croatian Cultural Centre in Baja Baja and the Pedagogical Methodic Centre in Budapest, if I haven't forgotten anything. So, we're talking about 10 institutions funded by the Hungarian state through the Croatian state self-government in Hungary for which 48 million kunas were allocated annually for 2019 normatively, normatively, without applying for a public call, please, please maintain your institutions. And every time we try to question in this assembly whether it is logical, normal, moral or what we already listen to rightly give and help national minorities to keep their identity here, here I am talking about the Hungarian community in Croatia, we need to know that on the other side of the border there are our fellow Croats whose other country, so Hungary provides the rights that we do not have here, nor do we have a different history that we ever have. With this reciprocity, we are so happy, so the Hungarian community in Croatia is very happy with it and we hope that this great progress made during this government's implementation of the operational programme for national minorities, as well as for the Hungarian minority, will continue because this great progress that has been made in the last 3 years has come about financing half of what the Croatian state self-government in Hungary has long ago and we congratulate them all on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202121	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected Serbian representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202122	You're a respected colleague, you're right. I know a lot about it, I am a very honored citizen in Nardi, which is where our Croats from the City are, and I work with them a lot, and they are currently opening the Croatian kindergarten again with the help of a very large Hungarian state, the Central Office for Croatians outside the country and the town of Mursko Središce and I know what it is. So I know that the vice president of Parliament is Dr. Csaba Hende is specifically in charge of the Croatian minority, and that is whether it was nice for all other countries in the environment to care for minorities in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202123	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202124	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I have already spoken several times, then there is no need to deepen some of the topics if I have mostly said all the important things in a few sentences. However, I would like to look back at some colleagues' discussions, those are colleagues who think they give national minorities something. They don't give them anything. Those who have a mental circuit think they're giving someone something are the ones who want something. They are usurperers, someone who has identified himself with the state and believes that the state is its property, and that someone else is a guest, and that he gives that guest something, not that he has a pathological notion of the state, but that he has a destructive notion of the state and of himself and of everything he comes to meet, he has sacralized his own incompetence, and they have sacralized their own destruction. Unfortunately, there are those who tell you about how friends always have members of a national minority, obviously they are not able to be friends with a friend but friends with a Serbian, Czech, Slovak or some. So it's just that as a philosopher, it's a terrible challenge, and that's that reduced knowledge horizon. If someone chooses, for example, for friendship, then they cannot say me as friends with Croats. That's not true. Who thinks so has a learning problem, and besides, I've talked about it today. The familiar problem is also with those who felt that members of the national minorities could come to HS as MPs, but that they should not be full representatives, but that we will organise a referendum that will organise for them for our youngest descendants only born and will sign on lists and on those who have died for two, three generations, we will organise a referendum to undermine the people and all the enmity of our own which we have actually made towards the state, if we do not allow it to develop, we will bring it down to another minority who will be called a national minority and we will introduce them as those who have been defeated and who have been defeated by us, we will bring them into this Parliament and we will tell them that you can be there, but you will not be there, but you will not decide anything. It is not understood that the rights in this referendum initiative have been disabled, that the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been disabled, that those who voted for these representatives do not have their own representative in Parliament because this representative cannot choose the Government, cannot vote on the budget or do not know what has fallen to the teams who have usurped the idea of a nation and the idea of religion. And it's been promoted by some portals, it's been promoted by some weeks that I'm not going to mention right now because I don't want to advertise. These are weeks and portals that promote the idea of a nation and the idea of faith, these are portals and weeks that act in an informative way, in a way that will show some personal history data. And I was, at the time I might have been the most expensive one when I read such a weekly when they analyzed me and my family, they didn't have any connection I discovered that even because of the editor of that media was raised criminal charges for endangering the rights of minors. He's jeopardizing a lot is this weekly, it's nothing but a weekly apology of rape and all those who participate and who read such weeks apologists of rape, apologists of destruction, apologists of denial of this country. All those who believe that on the basis of their own negativity will prove themselves in a patriotic whim and gleam are in deep error. The patriotism today as always communicates in dialogue, in tolerance, in building, and not in it was someone beside me because he's valuable, he was behind my back because he's worth it. Well, it's neither heliocentric nor geocentric system that we're watching who's moving around now. No one moves around like that because they're irrelevant. A lot of movement and movement around every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, every single citizen who now feels like a citizen is the greatest value that now exists and has always existed. All those who feel that they are giving something, that they have historical merits, that they have created something or that they have given someone freedom, they are ready for the destruction of the state, for the denial of rights and for the referendums that will intimidate people to take the rights of others.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202125	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected Serbian MP pardon, it's from last time. We will now go to the finals, first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the finally respected representative of Srpak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202126	Dear Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State. Legal preconditions for introducing an equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities are regulated by the state in 27 units of local self-government. We have heard before that the great growth in the issue of ID cards in Italian is probably some good information. Many cases have been conducted in court in the languages of the Italian minority, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian and Serbian. The right of members of national minorities to education in their language and letter is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in three models, model A teaching in language and letter of minorities, model B bilingual teaching and model C fostering language and culture. In addition to these models there are also special forms of teaching such as summer school, winter school and special programmes for the inclusion of Roma national minority students in the educational education system. In the pedagogical year 2018-2019 79 kindergartens implement a public needs programme for children of minority members for a total of 2,506 children. One example of good practice is our city kindergarten in the Murski center, which integrates 35 Roma children into a ten-hour programme in four educational groups. The cost is borne by the Ministry of Science and Education and the city budget, and free transport is provided. In the school year 2018-2019, the primary school education and education in language and letter of minorities in all education models included a total of 7,013 pupils, and secondary education covered nearly 1,500 pupils. During 2018 further progress has been made in the field of education by involving children and Roma minority students at all levels of the education system, and in line with the National Strategy for Roma inclusion in 2013-20. The total amount in the national budget for the implementation of that strategy in 2018 amounts to 32 million kuna. For children of the Roma minority, inclusion in pre-school education programmes is ensured in order to bridge the gap between the socio-economic situation in which these children and minorities live, as early inclusion in pre-school and education programmes is extremely important for the success of their education. The Ministry of Science and Education scholarships all regular students of Roma minority schools amounting to 5,000 kuna per year, and for higher education students worth 10,000 kuna per year. That government measures are high-quality and well-focused and the fact of the remarkable decline of registered unemployed persons of the Roma minority, so in December 2018 we record a decline in unemployment and a minority of 15.8% compared to December '17. A high increase is also recorded in nearly 20% as part of the application of employment-enhancing measures. There are also developments in quality and availability of healthcare for members of the Roma national minority. Equal progress has been recorded on the inclusion of the Roma minority in culture and social life. It is therefore worth noting that the roof Roma association of the Roma in the Republic of Croatia "Kali Sara" has provided financial assistance worth 4.5 million kuna. However, it should be pointed out that there is a mother tongue problem in Međimurje Roma. The Međimurje Roma speak the archaic Romanian fairy language of limba d'bayash which is not codified, and the codified language of all Roma or novels chip they do not understand and never speak it. We have such a situation where children of Roma national minorities in Međimurje do not have the possibility to organise teaching in their own language, and many do not understand Croatian well. I must refer to the speech of Agent Katazia. It is true that many members of the Roma national minority live in Međimurje, and it is incorrect not to invest in them and that Roma settlements are not arranged. Only in this composition of the work in the Mursko Centre is the 2 million EUR from the IPA programme. £300,000 per year is paid from the city budget for children in kindergarten with a number of other commitments from the city budget. At the county level, it's certainly a multimillion-dollar amount. Health care is equally accessible to everyone. Nevertheless, there are many problems that make up individuals, I stress individuals. The last case is when the firemen who came out of the fire were shot with stones. Probably because they came out. I'm glad my colleague Kajtazi condemned such behavior. The integration of the Roma minority is a dry need, and we all have to make our full contribution without taking advantage of it. these problems for political purposes. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202127	Thank you. Next final on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202128	Dear colleagues, we heard a jargon this morning, I mean from the last century. I don't know if anyone from the Independent Sovereign Club there ever insults anyone by national minority? I never did. I am a Serbophile, I love Serbs, but at the same time, I would say that the truth has no ideological omen and that truth must come on, on, on, on the light of day and without that truth we will not advance, catharsis between, between the Serb minority in the Republic of Serbia, the Croatian minority in Serbia etc. We need one dose of truth, and then we can move on, because that truth doesn't have an ideological omen. We hear a jargon here in this Mr. Pernar we hear, we hear a jargon of clerofashist etc., we hear this nationalist, homophobe. I don't know if anyone is insulting the people of our club by their sexual here, this, orientation or their nationality? But at the same time as I was saying today that it is obvious that in the Republic she is the group that is the most, this one is the Croatian, is the Croatian minority. Look like this, let's get the data, you got, you got, I believe in God and math. You have 3 million Croats outside + BH, we have 3 representatives here in the assembly. How many minorities do we have? We have, how many, hundreds of thousands of people who have the right to vote under the Constitution in the Republic of Croatia. They've been deprived of their right to vote. First of all, the last elections, the European Parliament, how many votes did they vote? 20,000 people. Who will fly from Vancouver to Mississauga to Ontario for a vote should vote when the parliamentary elections are etc. in Stuart, the bolt and when he gets there we say, sir, you're not introduced in, in the voting log. It's just discrimination. But why am I saying that? Because these people out there took the Croatian lumps in their pocket with them. These people paid before the Homeland War, one example, "Life Action", 10,000 orphans in the Republic of Croatia were outside the country financing children without parents and continuing after the war, it is only one action. It's come from outside since '92, it's not Glasnovic's data since '92. Until '94. Only those 2 years. 600 million dollars came here to get guns, a 25-fenigo bullet. Ships came to Rijeka with ammunition, and it would have been fired in one action, and since the Republic of Croatia had no ammunition factory again, it was, it was, it was, they paid Ustasha, they called Ustasha, some of them, all the Croats here outside the country are Ustasha, they paid for them to sit here today and tell their stories, they paid their synergy to get their kids out of school, and they spit on those Croats outside the country today, they say no, so they don't pay taxes. Well they paid, 16 billion kuna minimum comes here outside the homeland, which is registered through the CNB. Without that, the propo health system would have been paid off, and when the comrades launched an action in the International Court for working in Switzerland to pay the occupiers' pensions, that's the integration of Eastern Slavonia, what tax they paid, except that they did to us here and Serbian JNA, it did here, how much, $36 billion minimum damage, we still pay 33% of the former Yugoslavia's debt today, and nobody's talking about it. I don't know, I never got an answer from anyone how much we're paying a pension in Serbia, a direct? What's that Croat's pension in Boca Kotarska? In Vojvodina? What about, what about ours, what about the archives down there? Is Mr. Maras they saved you here that, that you can talk here, but unfortunately this one you don't accept the truth, you don't accept, you're vaccinated against the truth. Let's talk about cultural space. Yesterday there was a historic forgery that was totally destroyed, you had a Laudato TV show about that about the Sisak children's shelter from Kozara, I don't know who saw it, it wasn't advertised too much in the daily newspapers, the mainstream media and they also took the cultural space of the former Yugoslav. I was not arrested after the Homeland War by Serbs and Chetniks, but brought by Croatian police, alleged Croatian police for informative talks, a deep-seated state, that's what we got.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202129	Thank you very much. Next Club representative of national minorities on behalf of whom the respected representative Furio Radin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202130	Thank you very much. Someone said in a speech before the minorities were curtsy and that's why they were attacked. That would mean that it's cost-effective in a political sense to attack minorities. I don't want to believe that theory. My colleague Bulj said he knows many members of the national minorities who are fine, and I also know many Croats who are fine. We live together in the country, it's been a quarter of a century since the war. When will this war be over? We're still continuing it, and we're continuing World War II, and it's doubtful that World War I is over for some things. We can't keep living with the war behind our backs, we have to watch here I won't say in the future, so let's look at the present, we'll have opportunities to sacrifice ourselves soon. I admit, I'm confused in today's debate, I just want to say that I'm happy that she's finished now and that I hope that the next report will be more contentable in those issues that are not resolved. Here it is said before that operational plans in some parts have not been implemented, operational plans have not been implemented in most parts. Let's talk about these things is it's a matter of the present and the immediate future. Let's talk, Minister Malenica was our dear guest in Istria had every reason to come to Istria because after 28 years of the Treaty on National Minorities between Croatia and Italy, it was in fact in most parts not achieved, and just a month earlier, the powers had moved to the county so that we could talk much more normally about it and now I hope that in Istria County will do what, not 28 years but since '96, come 20 and a few years ago in the state administration. They've come down to power which is good, and now we're going to see if we're capable of doing it, and then I'm going to say in advance that I'm going to encourage the government to be critical of Istria even though Istra won't apply those things that haven't been applied by the state for so many years. It's also not great in Istria about bilingualism, there's regression there, we're going to have to do a lot of work there, but these are all the things that are given, as I would say, that there's no need for them, and that there's no problem there's no need for parties or for representatives of national minorities. We're here to solve problems, those problems that we have to solve are certainly not the problems of the First or the Second World War, and I hope no more of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202131	The next Club of Representatives is the MOST on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202132	Thank you. Honorable representatives of the government, Croatian citizens, colleagues and colleagues. Here's colleague Radin said that I said that certain national members, certain individuals I consider and that's my position and I will present it, that part of the Croatian political corps are Croats and members of all national minorities. It is an absolute definition that I support, but in this debate I touched the Homeland War and the creation of the Croatian state and said that many individuals at various levels not only through the battle sector in the defence of the Homeland War have given a huge amount of defence against large-serb Chetnic aggression and at that point. And that's what we need to talk about, that's not where I'm talking about, and this is what the SDP itself said the Tribba would take notice of him, not vote on him. However, I think that here fellow Radin members of parliament representatives representatives of national minorities and other colleagues and fellow citizens, a lot of words have been spoken here that do not belong in the domain, and you did not mention that was offended by those who, for example, were. asked why the contract, an international contract between the Croatian government and, let's say, the government in Serbia from 2004 on the reciprocity of representatives and executive bodies, culture, is a legitimate issue. And now that representative who said that the fascist and Nazi dictionary is hitting on us that we're inhumans, that we're chauvinists, that I don't know what we are, and I personally live with the people of the Serb national minority. Feel free to take that great man's phone and the great men who spoke those words in fascist and communist terms, the Nazi way they told us to essentially move those words, call them on the phone and ask them where I live. So I have absolutely no problem with the definition of national minorities, but it is also a fact that representatives, only I asked the Minister, the Government, the Government's representative when he was Mr. Zigmanov and representatives of all other national minorities and Italians who said that the cooperation of the Croatian national minority with the authorities was ok in Italy, I pointed to the problem of what is correct to ask the Croatian authorities. Here's a simple example, what about the Croatian national minority in Vojvodina? I only made a parallel, the Serbian national minority has three representatives in HS, slightly less than 50 mayors, mayor or mayor and mayor of guaranteed 11 mayors. And in Serbia, Vojvodina, Croats absolutely have no right only in Parliament was a Serbian representative, but it was from the civil list, not the list. Where is the reciprocity that Croatia signed with the Republic of Serbia in 2004, and in 2005, is the agreement initialled? I think you ministers would go out and say something about it. A colleague of Zigmanov when he was a representative of Croats in Vojvodina, it was sad to hear from him as he treated the Croats in Serbia. For example, one member of the national minority in Croatia stands out 37 kuna, one member of the national minority of Croats in the Republic of Serbia stands out 1 kuna, with all other rights they do not have. And the terror of the Croat Chetniks in the Vojvodina area unimaginable to these people of Croatian nationality to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I listened to it here in the Small Council Assembly, so these things should be spoken by all of us, of course, and by members of the national minority in the Republic of Croatia who are part of the majority at this moment in Parliament. I am an opposition fellow Radin, a representative of the Czech minority, representatives of other minorities are Albanian minorities, all other minorities are part of the majority at this point and they should also open this issue of reciprocity. In some countries it has been fulfilled, we have terrible friendly relations, but in some Croatian national minorities have been terrorized in the worst way in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202133	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202134	Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 for the purposes of national minorities. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 23 abstentions and 6 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body. Since we have just come to the conclusion that we have adopted the Report, it is essential to vote on the proposal of the SDP Representatives' Club, which is proposed to take the same note.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202135	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Report of the National Council on the monitoring of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 15 September 2018 to 15 July 2019 The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is the holder of the National Council under Article. 2. Decisions on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear President of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, our colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202136	... So before you is the report by our body of the National Council on the monitoring of the implementation of the HS Corruption Prevention Strategy from 15 September 2018 to 15 July 2019. [[Specially enabled.]] In accordance with its powers, the National Council has 6 tasks, oversees and monitors the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, systematically monitors the occurrences of corruption and bodies responsible for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, analyses the report of the competent authorities on the implementation of the Corruption and Action Plans Strategy and assesses the ways and results of the implementation, proposes measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the Strategy and what is particularly important, encourages and directs the co-operation of HS and state and other bodies and other factors in charge of implementing the Anti-Corruption Strategy. During the period in question, the National Council held 13 sessions, of which 9 regular and 4 thematic sessions, since six other sessions have been held since July, which means that the National Council has been working at 31 sessions. The National Council shall monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, in which the general objectives are to prevent corruption or manage its risks in public administration, units of local, regional (regional) self-government, public authorities, companies in which units of local and regional self-government have ownership stakes, and private and non-profit sectors. Through regular and thematic meetings, the National Council discussed the implementation of the Action Plan and Strategy and specifically focused on 7 horizontal objectives, namely the integrity within the political system and administration, local and regional (regional) self-government, public procurement, majority state-owned companies, the prevention of conflicts of interest, the right to access information, and in particular we encourage the continued role and organisation of civil society, citizens and media in countering corruption. Therefore, the reports of the action plan discussed at our regular sessions were accepted during that period. What is important is to highlight as in the last reporting period that HS adopted, the National Council has repeatedly indicated that there is still an impression in the public that preparedness to fight corruption in the Republic of Croatia is in a slight decline. It also confirmed a corruption perception index for 2018 in which Croatia found itself in a circle of corrupt countries. The 2018 corruption perception index showed that the Republic of Croatia is lagging behind and stagnating in the fight against corruption. Then Croatia had 48 points and took 60 seats from 180 countries. Therefore, despite the efforts of the state authorities and the objectively high procedure of measures taken from the action plan, the impression is that after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the fight against corruption has lost its breath. We also received confirmation of this in the latest corruption perception index published in January 2020, in which Croatia of 180 countries was in 63 places with 47 points. So we fell 1 points and 3 places compared to 2018. We are below the average of EU countries, our neighbouring Slovenia has 60, and we are closer to Slovenia than Montenegro with 45 or 39 points. For the sake of orientation, the world's most transparent state is Denmark and New Zealand with 87 points. In addition, some of the latest reports by the European Commission indicate the need for more effective implementation of measures to combat corruption, as well as the 5th evaluation round of GRECO sets out certain objections, above all, when it comes to political pressures on the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. During this reporting period, the National Council sought to increase the integrity of public authorities' responsibility and transparency, strengthen anti-corruption mechanisms in public authorities, strengthen public authorities' cooperation, effectively detect and combat corruption, monitor the consistent effective implementation of the existing legislative framework, and as our special task to strengthen public awareness of the causes and consequences of corruption and the roles of each individual citizen in the prevention of corruption. Of the 13 sessions, 9 were regular, reports were accepted, the enforcement of measures in percentage is high and satisfactory. In addition to the above, what I would particularly like to stress at regular sessions is the presentation of a professional diplomat, Mr Damir Sabek, employed by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, on possible irregularities in the work of the ministry. Unfortunately, the case has not yet been completed since the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has not responded to our requests for additional documentation, and this documentation has not even been received by the Commissioner for Access to Information. Also, our sessions were discussed and the orientation of the 2019 Action Plan was supported. - 2020. We also organised a presentation of the application of city finances and the budget of the city of Bjelovar as the first completely transparent budget city in Croatia, and based on this, we have reached a conclusion on the national council calling on the Assembly, ministries, state bodies, public enterprises, municipalities, cities and counties to provide simple web on-line tools that would easily enable citizens to see the spending of budgets. In addition to regular sessions, we held four thematic sessions that we wanted to open a debate on some of the hot issues in the fight against corruption. The first of these sessions was the reform of the judiciary, with an emphasis on speeding up judicial proceedings and equating judicial practice where we sought to strengthen the proposals for measures deemed necessary by the national council to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary and to bring judicial practice into line. The second thematic session was very important, and it concerned the institute of the proposed draft Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, a step forward or a step back, where we highlighted problems in the discussion of all stakeholders in the resolutions of the draft Act on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which was subsequently withdrawn and in the draft draft Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The third topic again is the very burning topic in Croatia, political corruption in Croatia and the threat of parliamentary democracy. Because political corruption, or high-level corruption, is present among high-level state officials and politicians who have political power and use it for the purpose of playing the institution of the legal system, this form of corruption is a strong threat to democracy or the preservation of the rule of law in society, so that we have tried to offer solutions in this session to reduce the level of political corruption in Croatia. And the last of the thematic sessions concerned ethical challenges in higher education and science, where we held the session in Rijeka and thus continued practice to hold meetings of our council from time to time and in other areas, I remind the previous one was in Osijek. As for the performances and applications of citizens during this period, we have received 15 reports with suspicions of corrupting actions and one anonymous, which we have sent to the competent authorities for 11 we have received answers to what we have informed the citizens, while for 4 we are still waiting for answers from the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK and the Ministry of Science and Education. As regards the other activities of the National Council, representatives of the National Council took part in the meeting with representatives of the evaluation team within the 5 rounds of GRECO evaluation and in a meeting with representatives, UNDOK experts from the countries that monitor the application of the UN Convention against Corruption in the context of the review of the application of the provisions of Chapter II. Prevention of corruption. For this part, since you have received extensively all the materials, so there is no need for further discussion, we can say that despite the efforts made by the holders of the action plan towards the Croatian Perception Index for the third year in a row, it continues to fall back and remain among the corrupt countries. Corruption freely, we agreed we could call ourselves the cancer of society because it violates fundamental social values and consequently brings mistrust to society in the bodies of the state government. The 2019 and 2020 action plan highlights the fight against corruption and the strengthening of integrity within the political system. Therefore, the fight against corruption must include strengthening the integrity, accountability, efficiency of all officials and public authorities, in particular increasing the effectiveness of the judiciary, strengthening labour transparency and decision-making at all levels of government, freedom of the media, strengthening their active role in the development of prevention and repression of corruption, while at the same time strengthening the role and cooperation with civil society and citizens in countering corruption. The National Council particularly points out and insists on ensuring the absolute independence of all bodies involved in the prevention of corruption. In line with the conclusions of the National Council and the lead discussions on the repression of corruption, we reiterate that further visible progress in meeting the envisaged measures, that all the reports discussed at the meetings have been accepted, however, the information that concerns us is that this high percentage of the implementation of measures from the current action plans did not result in the correction of the corruption perception index or the greater confidence of citizens in the institutions, and we believe that this is a key task both of the National Council and of the HS and of all actors involved in the development of a new anti-corruption strategy for the next five-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202137	Thank you very much. Since it's exactly 13 o'clock now, then we'll move on to taking a stand on behalf of the clubs, and then we'll move on with the replicas afterwards. Now we're going back to our wheel, so we're going to go to the replicas, the first replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202139	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr Jovanovic, it has been said recently in public that certain banks operating in the Republic of Croatia have laundered money. The CNB has launched enhanced supervision of banks. I'm interested in whether your working body launched this initiative on this matter, was it asking for a report from the CNB? Because we representatives in the Croatian Parliament are not informed at all what is happening in the Croatian financial system and how it is possible that Croatia has become the main money launderer in this part of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202140	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202141	Thank you very much. My colleague Škobol, therefore the National Council has the power to comply with all the public's objections and demands, that we have not received anything in this direction that you are talking about, and the topic is really serious, on your initiative if you run it, the National Council may request information from the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202142	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202143	Thank you very much. I believe that this, this commission basically has a much greater role to play, and their work is recognizable because a number of issues have been raised that are being raised, of course thanks to the media. I'd just ask here a question about what we're all supposed to be discussing, that's what's going on, so this profit-making thing that started inside selling protective gear from masks and the rest that suddenly picked up what's 500 percent, something that's been 50 lip came up on 20 kuna, it's been protective masks. And it's a kind of corruption where people take advantage of this in difficult times. Here, I would like an opinion, and it's very important when we talk about corruption that is the key to corruption and where much less is seen in the eyes it's at regional levels, we're not talking about it And the consequences are county. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202144	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202145	Thank you very much, colleague Bulj, for talking about this profit-making, the crown profit-making that I think you should be in the rank of war profit-making. We also have a recommendation from the other day of GRECO which has published guidelines for 50 members of the Council of Europe where I quote "the eruption of the Covida-19 epidemic increases the risks of corruption in particular the vulnerable health sector, especially because of the need for emergency supply of medical material by simplifying the rules of procurement, crowded hospital institutions and the burden of medical staff". So, GRECO asks all members to take steps to prevent corrupt practices in the health system, and we as a national council will surely in this remaining period of time, as far as we are working on our part, look for all the information that will indicate whether there is a crown profiting industry somewhere that I say is in the ranks of war profiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202146	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202147	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, I must warn you here as president of the bodies that should monitor the situation of corruption in the Republic of Croatia that we have an incredible situation in the city of Zagreb after the earthquake, instead of helping citizens, our mayor of humanitarian aid paid by people in order to specifically help people who have broken down houses, damaged apartments that are not in their homes, assigns up to 200,000 kuna to the simple acquisition of their trustees, mates from his party Milan Bandic 365. It's scary to me, here's the Justice Minister I'd like him to refer to that thing because it's his coalition partner. Is it a shame for you ministers that the humanitarian aid that the Zagreb and the people around Zagreb and around the world have been gathering to help after the earthquake Milan Bandic is giving to members of his party and buying construction material from them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202148	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202149	Thank you, colleague Maras. So what you're talking about also points to the crown profiting which is inadmissible and I am convinced that everyone who cares about getting out of this crisis better do whatever it takes to prevent the crown from profiting. Power corrupts absolute power absolutely corrupts and this is the best example of the city of Zagreb that has failed under the current mayor who even this situation with an earthquake and a coronary epidemic is used to favor his party friends and colleagues, which is indeed a disaster. It also ranks as a top state inspector who has shown himself to be completely underperforming to his post. And it's interesting that his wife got the job that she got the conditions the moment she graduated from a very successful academic career at 47 she got her degree and immediately got a job in a state-owned company. These are all examples of clientelism and corruption that we must not tolerate in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202150	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202151	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Jovanovic you presented the data on the perception of the corruption index in Croatia for 2018 so we saw how low Croatia stands, then compared to 2018 in 2019 this perception fell and it does not need to be surprising. Today, people, perhaps not in the focus of this topic, but it should be remembered why, so in 2018, it marked the government attack on the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests where they wanted, we remember the way in Helsinki, a series of ministers on charges of serious conflicts of interest and there was, in fact, the Government in its activities in 2018, wanted to shut down the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and to close their mouths. And in 2019 half of the government left because of serious suspicions of corruption, 14 ministers left this government and that should be reminded. So now we're in some kind of bubble around this coronary virus, but we're going to be very quick to remind the citizens of what this government was doing and what's genetic about this government, and that's corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202152	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202153	Thank you, fellow Djujic. So I also said on behalf of the National Council that the key problem that we are facing today is that everyone who wants to combat corruption, and I believe that most of us here want it, that the measures that are being taken in percentage and better than in previous years do not lead to an increase in the confidence of citizens in institutions, to... the index of the perception of corruption and certainly all of these affairs that you have mentioned contributes to it. Therefore, we are ahead of us in creating a new strategy, moving the new action plan from word to action and restoring citizens' confidence in institutions. So right now, we have a situation where citizens have great confidence in the activities that are being taken, but this will take a very short time, and that trust will be lost when the pandemic passes unless we prevent various profits from abuseing public interest in favour of their personal and private needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202154	Thank you very much. The next replica will be a respected representative of Culei. He's gone, so he won't replicate. And then we're going to open a debate, and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202155	Thank you. I won't welcome any vice presidents or fellow MPs here anymore because I noticed that people in comments write to me who you say hello to, you're not even five in the assembly. I will address Croatian citizens, those who watch this session. The President-in-Office of the National Council, of course, I must contact you because you are the promoter of this report for the period from 15 September 2018 to 15 July 2019. I would say that we should congratulate the members of the National Council for getting a new momentum, sharpened its focus on resolving the fundamental issue of our society, which is the political corruption in which Prime Minister Plenkovic's government works, and by which this authority is recognised as the most corrupt in the EU. The European Commission's concrete indicator of political corruption and justice in Croatia is the worst of all EU countries. These indicators are getting worse and worse every year, although the leaders of the executive and judicial authorities in Croatia seek to reduce their importance. Despite propaganda and artificial beauty, Croatian citizens feel the growing corrupt grip of Plenkovic's corrupt harvests, which, like Bandic's tokens in Zagreb, employ their women in state-run losers without competition, without the prescribed conditions of seizing the subsidized apartments and without professional competences, take up responsible public positions. How dangerous it is to place incompetent party harvests in responsible positions have been convinced of our fellow citizens from the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Split whose lives of HDZ authorities have been entrusted to the hands of Director Škaričić. But it's not Scissor's fault, it's those who put such a person in such a responsible place. The data from Brussels confirm a bitter reality that Croatia has become the European focus of political corruption under Prime Minister Plenkovic. Croatian citizens who do not have the wrong but the right perception of the political corruption of Plenkovic's government know that. In your Report it is precisely stated on the National Council is not an operational body and cannot impose sanctions on corrupt acts. The report also pointed out precisely that, as a working body, the National Council, the most representative institutions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Parliament's decision, has jurisdiction, as well as mechanisms for effectively detecting and curbing corruption. These mechanisms were used by the Council during the reporting period, when a hearing of the Chief Inspector at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs revealed that Loretta Bertosa Kushen, the wife of the former ambassador to Australia, had been with her husband in Canberra for years, while consul Petrusic paid her money from the consulate in Sydney, where she was formally deployed, but did not come to work. After the heated session of the National Council in 2018, Prime Minister Plenkovic removed Bertosa Kusen from his post in the ministry. But neither the former minister nor current minister, Bertos and Kushen, have so far issued a decision to fire the state service under the law. Namely, the Law on State Officers accurately states that the Minister must sign a decision on the dismissal of an officer who is left unwarranted for 5 days from work, and at the session of the National Council in 2018, it was revealed that the wife of Ambassador Kušen had not been to work in the Consulate in Sydney for months where the solution was officially deployed and for which consul Petrusic paid her salary. It has not yet been revealed who was all in the government, ministry and DORH involved in the cover-up, but the chief inspector of the ministry, Christmas, who e-mailed several diplomats in 2016 to keep silent about the information from reporting violations of the law in Australia. It was subsequently revealed that inspector Christmas lied at a session of the National Council, which became clear after new documents arrived in the National Council, such as the 2016 Inspector's e-mail that I delivered to Prime Minister Plenkovic three months ago on the current morning. Until today, I have not received a written answer to the then asked question to Prime Minister Plenkovic, after whose interventions in the Parliament, I recall, the DORH on the same day rejected the criminal application of diplomat Sablak, whom they refused to listen to, and they took him away from the service a few days later. I would have asked Jandrokovic, so President of the Parliament, and here, perhaps Vice President Reiner, if the President of the Parliament has performed his duty and asked his party colleagues in the government to answer my parliamentary question. The 30-day deadline set out in the Rules of Procedure has been repeatedly exceeded. I remind you that Croatian citizens pay for the exercise of the duties of President of the Parliament, not to protect members of his party and perpetrators of dirty and illegal transactions on Zrinjevac. The Honorable National Council President Jovanovic, the minister, means to Bosnjakovic, Minister Grlic Radman refused to attend the Council meeting in 2019, sent a Christmas inspector who lied at a session held in 2018. Minister Grlic Radman also refused to deliver travel orders from Australia and a report from inspector Christmas. I remind you, after receiving the report from Inspector Christmas, the DORH rejected a criminal report, in which Christmas is suspected of concealing crimes in Australia. I demand, Your Honor, that the National Council continue to resolutely request documents that the Foreign Minister hides from this working body of the Croatian Parliament, responsible for the fight against corruption, by violating the Rules of Procedure. If we really want, as the report says, to strengthen public awareness of the role of every citizen in the prevention of corruption, then the least we can do is continue to use mechanisms to expose the whole truth in this case, in which cover-up was directly involved by top state officials, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Parliament President Gordan Jandrokovic. So, here, dear citizens, you who have heard this, you could see what corruption is going on here, it's been exposed to the National Council, but until today there is no epilogue, and Damir Sabelak is still away from the service, still waiting for him to return to work. People, mind-to-head, here, try to push through the election now in the 7th month, elections in bathing suits, if you want this corrupt government, then choose it, and if you want to fight corruption, you know who you're going to choose, those who consistently fight corruption and who don't have figurines in their pocket. Smart in the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202156	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202157	The Honorable Vice-President of HS, the Honorable National Council President, Mr Jovanovic, the Honored Ministers and State Secretary. Here, the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy is obliged to submit a report to HS twice a year, which is what it does. It is true that it is not an operational body and has no legal authority to conduct investigative activities, nor as such can it impose sanctions on the possible initiation or establishment of corrupt operations. The National Council shall exercise supervision for the implementation of the action plan with the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. As such, the National Council also proposes measures to improve and prevent corruption through the objectives set by the anti-corruption strategy, which the president himself has spoken of extensively. During this reporting period, 13 regular sessions were held, as we heard from the president of the National Council and we had four thematic sessions. What a fellow Grumo spoke of earlier, in fact all the things we received as complaints of citizens or initiated them ourselves, we are publicly and transparently speaking at a session of the National Council. Here I may need to refer to what Mr. Grumo said, which is that we actually need to have some evidence to give certain things to further process but not just to comment either through the media or in person. Presenting its report, the National Council sought to speak publicly and transparently about the effectiveness of countering corruption and strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms in public authorities bodies, but also to strengthen public awareness of the causes and consequences of corruption and the role of each individual citizen in the prevention of corruption. Corruption is unacceptable behavior in a society that in itself destroys that sense of justice, but also trust in the authority itself. This weakens the institutions of government, and they are thus weakened even more vulnerable to corruption. No, actually, there are no societies that are immune to corruption. In preparation for this point, I specifically analysed the Transparency International corruption report on Germany and Austria. Although these countries are quite high on the scale of the corruption perception index, transparency itself, and in these countries there are particularly seminars and education for officials and officials to reduce corruption to the least possible extent. When you enter these interactive maps related to SR Germany, you will see that about 66% of citizens think they are public and some other services in SR Germany are corrupt. All countries are looking for the best way to address corruption through criminal law, which in itself, we have heard more than once, will not produce results. The issue of corruption is, in fact, the question of the purity of a nation that must be as aware as possible of the corruption itself. Corruption isn't just bribery, it's also seen in lobbying, nepticism, protection, clienteleism, in socially unacceptable patterns of behavior, not one society I say is immune to corruption. Corruption is a global problem. You will also agree that it is not the same to live, work, grow, educate in the north, for example, in Europe or in the country's half or in the south. That's what I'm saying because both time and climate and customs, traditions, and all of this actually affects certain forms of corruption that are actually patterns of behavior in some countries. Many religious communities speak of corruption as a disease. Last time I said it, and now I'm going to repeat that some church dignitaries say that sin may be forgiven, but corruption alone can't because it's a disease because they think it's a disease. The National Council therefore holds the thematic sessions during each period to further highlight and encourage the reflection on the occurrences of corruption through judicial reform. In order to speed up court proceedings because, according to some of the indicators we have received, citizens are apostrophe as the biggest corruption problem in the Republic of Croatia itself, I say that is the perception of citizens. We have not actually isolated ourselves through these topics from any phenomenon of corruption, whether it is corruption to political parties at local level in the bodies of state or public authorities, and of course our interest is in the national council, so all the members of the National Council talk about how publicly it is possible to make the public through these talks, but also to publish in the public media, in fact, realize how evil corruption itself is. The National Council initiated proposals related to the proposals of the Law on the Prevention of Interest which was particularly apostrophe during this period. As in many countries, political corruption has also been talked about in Croatia as a threat to parliamentary democracy that is present among senior officials and those who actually have political power and abuse it. It was also noticeable through the citizens' enquiries of corruption in higher education and its derrogation through plagiarism, falsified but also issues of co-authorism itself and we specifically talked about it and had a thematic session held in Rijeka. Although the Croatian Parliament has a regular report on complaints from citizens in the Republic of Croatia, it is therefore a special point and a national council to appeal to citizens for the existence or suspicion of corrupt actions. Of course, all these applications we receive are forwarded neatly to the competent authorities for decision-making. During the past period, both by individual members of the National Council and by citizens, we spoke publicly and transparently about such complaints at national council meetings, as well as by colleagues of Grmoi. It is also evident that, through the work of the National Council, too many social aspects are often unfounded, but initiated by some media inscriptions and the production of affairs that are subsequently shown to be completely incorrect and that trap should be avoided. We are all invited to be socially responsible, but we must distance ourselves from public demonstrations in a society that often has no basis. The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy must continue to insist on institutional solutions that reduce the forms of corruption in our society, but also on legislation without media or any other link. It is also evident in the sittings themselves that great efforts are being made through the operators of the implementation of the action plan. Unfortunately, according to the perception index, as well as citizens' perceptions, some institutions are particularly stressed as corrupt and are in fact losing their reputation in society. In the coming period, the National Council should be more closely monitored for the implementation of the Action Plan, the strategy itself, which has created serious difficulties in previous periods. Today, I want our citizens to feel that we are speaking publicly about corruption, that we are showing it and processing it and that it is not worth it to any of us. What I must stress in particular, which is in this report, and it is related to the very draft of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which lists a number of observations and proposals by the Commission for Decision on Conflict of Interest, are not accepted and that some institutes are not incorporated and represent, as the report says, a step backwards. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has given its opinion on the fact that the draft in question is not referred to in further procedure and the creation of a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest on the activities of the Ministry of Administration is foreseen for 4th quarter of 2020, the Government also points out that the current strategy and all its implementing documents place a special emphasis on the prevention of corruption, which I do not think was necessary in particular in this Report. And finally, the HDZ Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202158	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is one of the Independent Youth Lists, which will be spoken by the respected representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202159	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Here, today here in the Parliament we have an opportunity to discuss corruption in Croatia. Corruption in Croatia is indeed one of the essential root problems. We have talked a lot about corruption in this assembly, however, I do not see any concrete shifts in this matter. The National Council’s report on monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy for the period 15 September 2018 to 15 July 2019 gives us an insight into what that working body was dealing with. Personally, I was present at some thematic sessions, and I think that this body was doing a good job given the intelligence it has because there is simply no more mechanism to fight corruption than it does. One of the thematic sessions of essential importance was certainly the reform of the judiciary, with emphasis on speeding up court proceedings and unifying court practice and this is a very important topic because a large number of Croatian citizens believe that corruption in the judiciary is the worst corruption that does not make room for the progress of the Croatian state. Croatia, i.e. corruption in the judiciary is indeed the source of many corruptions, and most Croatian citizens agree that our judiciary has hit the bottom. According to data obtained by the EU commission, Croatia is at the top of the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants at the moment. Two years ago, we were first behind Slovenia. The figure is about 1764 judges, and the length of the proceedings is expressed as neither in any other state. So we're famous in the world for the length of court proceedings. Isn't that a paradox? So on the one hand, we have a large number of judges, and I think that means that some data suggests that we are the EU state with the largest number of judges, and on the other hand, the court proceedings last the longest and that is, there is no need to say anything more to indicate the weak, poor and negative efficiency of the Croatian judiciary. It takes about 380 days for a first-degree ruling in litigation and commercial proceedings, and in developed countries of the Union, a few dozen days. In Croatia, we have 58 first-degree courts and 122 of them and 18 of them. It means that we have 152 presidents of courts and their deputies and about 440 heads of department and their deputies, which is in practice 30 thousand, 30 300 less resolved cases each year because these judges, so the presidents of the courts don't simply deal with cases. So we have 592 judges who are freed from solving objects entirely or to a considerable extent, and maybe there should be reasons for such poor efficiency. What we need so many presidents of the court, that's the question that's being asked. But when you ask that question, everything that works in our system, it just goes in this direction to let certain things go that the system works the way it works because it suits someone. As in the health system, it lets the waiting lists be long because someone is comfortable, too, and in that judicial system it is allowed to be so many presidents of the courts because someone is comfortable and because the system is simply so corrupt. But what is very interesting to me and what is one of the important indicators of judicial corruption is that the State Judiciary Council rarely reaches for a measure of discharge from duty. How does that work? Authorised applicants for a strict procedure are none other than the Presidents of the Court. Then how can we expect at all a number of tighter procedures when the structures they hold mean these presidents of courts and lobbys that are created in courts, protect each other and their own interests. How many sanctions have been imposed against the President of the Court, here, that's my question, so I'm interested in exactly how much the State Judiciary Council has imposed sanctions against the President of the Court. No sanctions, as far as I know, have gone against any president of the court. More serious corruption, more serious corruption cannot happen without the presidents of the courts at least not knowing what is going on and at least, if they are not involved, do not release the course itself of this realisation of certain corrupt actions. I see political corruption has been debated on this committee and that's good, but it's only one link, so political corruption itself can't exist without corruption in some other segments of society, and I here especially allude to corruption in the media. The media are forming a public opinion and I suggest that this working body be the next thematic session of corruption in the media and their impact on the realisation of narrow particular interests. Unfortunately, there is little real journalism today, and many intertwined interests of editors, certain media, in political, financial and other interesting games. We need to discuss this, we need to talk about it, nobody is untouchable, there is no dogma when it comes to corruption, so let's also talk about corruption in the media because indeed, media dealing with trivial things, media that distract the public from important things, and not give space to such topics, are not the media that should deserve not to be questioned. Corruption should be sought where it is assumed to be gone, and I claim it is in large quantities. Universitys, religious institutions, so-called Reputable members of the community. Let's just look at universities and colleges and see how much the cancer of corruption, nepotism and probabilities has spread there. What are the fighting and setting up there, so it seems sometimes even bigger than what happens in this assembly, which happens in politics itself. You have to face reality. Almost every serious scientist who doesn't accept their network is marginalized, harassed in different ways and unfortunately, such people can't even testify to what they've been through under the working circumstances where they've worked. What's the solution to all this? The solutions are unfortunately radical. If there were some solutions that were not radical, I would support them first, however, unfortunately I think that the only solution to solving this root and core corruption, I call it corruption of white collars is to move into radical solutions, and this current government headed by HDZ and not even the former in charge of SDP has been affected by corruption, as should be done. One session also discussed Damir Sabelak, which is the same example of the system as it works, as soon as it reported something, immediately resolved it after a brief procedure, we see that the ministry is obstructing, that it does not want to give official information, and yet, on the other hand, the obvious fact is that corruption was and that what he reported has been covered in the knowledge he had. The HDZ, unfortunately, will now throw away those propaganda balloons, as they have solved the coronary crisis, etc., will unfortunately be used by Minister Beros. Mr. Barroso should be told not to accept these games, not to have a puppet in the hands of HDZ because HDZ and SDP are parties, are organisations that are systematically unfortunately destroying the Republic of Croatia by corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202160	The next club of representatives is the Living Wall and We Change Croatia, and time will be shared by respected MPs Vucelic and Lovrinović. Apparently, the most respected representative of Lovrinović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202161	Dear colleagues and fellow citizens, I especially welcome you. If you're following us through television, you've probably thought about breaking up that television a long time ago because when you hear that corruption and corruption are being discussed in the Parliament, and you know that nothing has happened, then it's quite clear that you've had enough. It's been a long time since I've seen a more worthless report that came to Parliament, not this first time, but every year, every semester, where there's an impression that he's been fighting corruption, it's the order, so this is all a very expensive one. There is also a strategy, be careful, a strategy has been adopted to combat corruption. There is a National Council, so people are appointed to follow the implementation of this strategy, advice, sectoral approach is introduced by the ministries, by the local community. There's something called "Ethics Codes" being introduced into companies, signed by workers, you know what the result is? Not at all. A man was convicted of privatisation, but the most dangerous corruption that is being swept through Croatia, which simply destroyed us, is political corruption. The people don't say fish stink from the head, it's not for nothing. So it's this partocracy, it's, it's created a connection to so-called. To state political entrepreneurs, it has created chronocapitalism, it is the most dangerous kind of capitalism, which destroys the tissue of the entire society and the economy. It destroys the market, there's no fair competition, it leads to a politician staying in the spotlight, you have to look for him by phone, pull his sleeve. Why? To hire a child, to get an incentive, to get a certain subsidy, there's nothing you can do without it. Because if it were different, then the politician is no longer the center of my attention. People look, they deal with other issues and problems. Therefore, we have the rule of political structures that survive on the model of corruption, and that capillary corruption that comes from not being able to hire a cleaning woman without any connection, so that you can't get a particular project, or if you're not a member of the ruling party of this party or of those. In that sense, it's our reality. When we watched the election for the president of the country, a candidate appeared Dario Jurican who simply presented it in a way that people were reading massively, watching his video messages, and simply extended corruption as a way of coming to power. Each one recognized someone close to him, from his company, or from his surroundings. What is important here for Croatia? The important thing is that it's a weak state. You don't have a sovereign state here, you don't have a sovereign government, they listen to what a moment from Brussels or Frankfurt will be like, so it's important to have a weak state, weak institutions. Which institutions should be weak? The state's attorney's office should be weak. Why? He doesn't need to be given a big space, he needs to be paid small wages for people to leave, he needs to be buried with insignificant reports from some parking lots and beyond, so there's no end there. And even when we add and we see that there was a practically masseous attorney general, a member of some secret society who primarily took an oath to someone else, we don't know everything about HS. Therefore, there is a deep state in Croatia, it must start from the judiciary. There are no reports here, no partial approaches are worth it, here is simply a situation so that my people have no change, here we need a revolution, let's just say it out loud. She has to start with justice. A short time ago, about 600 judges were practically presidents of courts do not work, they have their deputies, they pile up objects, no one touches anyone, it's one food chain because those who were previously in power don't touch here now and they keep each other in their hands, only new people more honest and professional, they can change this country in all segments, than public procurement from the introduction of order, taking away property, than stopping out those who intend to escape to BiH as a reserve position, etc. Citizens, respected citizens, seek to abuse this situation with the coronary virus, to prepare and manage the party in power with fear of achieving political points. I call on you to finally defeat all those in the elections that have managed Croatia so far and finally turn to the fight against corruption. I call on all individuals of MPs and parties who have not been dirty to gather at the concept of anti-corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202162	The esteemed representative Vucelic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202163	Thank you, Chairman. The HDZ and SDP representatives have managed Croatia for 30 years, changing each other in power. You have built from Croatia instead of a promising and rich young country corrupt and poor kleptocrat, as in the case of former state lawyers who set up a mob called political party names. Also, corruption in Croatia is monitored by the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, my heart hurts when I see criminals watching criminals and that no one can do anything, that we kick this reality. We've had handcuffs in a hen for 30 years, and they've been guarding our chickens for 30 years. The ruling satellites and their satellites are deeply engulfed in corruption, crime, political entanglement, rude robbery, favors, corrupt justice, cover-up and rejection of criminal charges. And all cases of large-scale crime come to us right from politics and are directly linked to politics and politicians. Our Cosa Nostra could teach their sister organisation in Italy and then we get a report in this assembly, watch out for the National Monitoring Council in fact to implement anti-corruption measures, a council in which the HDZ and the SDPs sit, and there they have been sitting for 15 years, the same people, the same parties, the same policies. They were all in power, and they had a chance to deal with other people's but also outside enemies. They had a chance to deal with themselves, but be assured they won't thunder into the nettles and hit on themselves and on their own. I read yesterday's article in the media that General Mladen Kruljac was convicted of stealing millions of kunas and damages from the state of 58 million kunas from our judiciary after 13 years on probation alone. The robbery took place in Slavonia in the municipality of Sibinj, and his son is four kilos of marijuana and some cocaine imagine being paroled. The Council of Europe's body for the fight against corruption, GRECO warned the corrupt government to amend, amend the way in which the main state attorney and president of the Supreme Court were elected. GRECO himself says in his report that they have completely failed to prevent the corruption of parliamentary MPs, judges and prosecutors. By corruption indexes, we fall from year to year. At the callings of Ivan Vilibor Sincic, the USKOK engaged in the trivialities of former chief state attorney Cvitan at the end of his term advocated the re-design of USKOK in a way that USKOK no longer deals with cases of bribery of police officers for 50 kuna and smuggling of ham and cheese worth several thousand kunas, rather than with 10 large corruption cases a year. Did he do anything about it? What kind of fight against corruption are we talking about with such a BUSKOK? Did you know that Uskok's been looking for a financial investigator for years because there's no one to earn it? What kind of fight against corruption are you talking about if it took 8 years to solve criminal charges in the case of Fantasyland amusement park near Samobor, which the Croatian perjury and the stolen dishes have paralysed for a decade? It's a project worth over a billion kuna. How many more GDP are trapped in the judiciary? What kind of fight against corruption in Croatia are you talking about when the charges of exchanges in Agrokor were raised 7 years after they were issued? You're raising the Oil Man in 2020 for something that happened in 2010? In the case of Hypo Sanader, he stole money in '95, and the indictment was filed only in 2010. Instead of being a doctor of preventive medicine, you act as a priest who comes to bury a dead man. For centuries, it takes you to do something, and by then thieves hide, spend, or wash money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202164	Thank you. A colleague of Vucelic's. Since you have called all members of the National Council corrupt, I am your foundation. I give a warning in 239. If you have any evidence, you're bound to report it, if you know that the president and members of the National Council are corrupt and criminals, and that's what you called them. So let's stay away from that sort of thing, please. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by a respected representative, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As president of the National Council, I feel the need to react to the presentation of counterpart Vucelic, where he called members of the National Council criminals, I quote, criminals oversee criminals. So, fellow Vucelic, it is unforgivable to insult people without any arguments. I have even learned that politicians can insult us, but in this National Council there are also people who have been chosen from the ranks of the academic community, journalists, trade unions, it is unforgivable the way you performed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202166	Please, the violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, thank you for giving the warning, I was going to say that Mr. Vucelic hurt his ankle. 238, because in four and a half minutes, he insulted whom he had arrived and how much he could, without arguments all in a row and from members of the National Council itself and all others. And I would remind him that Mr. Vucelic has become a parliamentary representative solely for the reason that two of his predecessors were torn about one fee and salary in Brussels, so much about what party he holds to himself when it comes to political work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202168	You're also the one who brought up the injury of his colleague Vucelic's Rules of Procedure? What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202169	The Rules of Procedure have been injured, colleagues are telling the truth. Namely, I have not insulted all members of the Council, I have insulted criminals who have led this Croatian state for 30 years, who have been watching themselves, and speak that corruption does not exist or that it is small [[You didn't do it, you said it differently.]] Can I? [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Vucelic, you said it differently, you said it exactly.]] Chairman, can I use 10 seconds? No distractions to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't, you can't. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202170	You can't because you didn't mention what was hurt at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202171	Since I didn't mention it, so now I'm telling you, you're interrupting me right now in my presentation. Let me finish by the end [[If anyone's talking...]] Then assess whether I'm talking or not about the subject, please. [[Insect Reiner: Inaccuracy, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Please, give me back my time. [[Come on, come on. Please say it, but... /]] All right, give me back my time, please. [[Intruder Reiner: You are risking the warning further.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202172	Here you go, talk to me. So speak, I say speak. [[Intruder Vucelic: Give me back my time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202173	How many seconds do you give me to finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202174	As much as I was saying, you're the only one who's talking, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202175	So don't spread the truth, I haven't called the whole council, I know who's sitting in the Council, I've called the HDZ and the SDPs watching themselves, I've called them criminals. And it's okay to call them that because this country wasn't led to this by some unknown invisible, imaginary people from another reality, from another dimension, but brought by you and you oversee them yourself. What were you doing with the state's attorney? Why isn't the state's attorney processing criminals?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202176	Okay. Since it was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am your foundation. In 240th century, I give the warning by taking away the word. We will now continue and, on behalf of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, he should speak to the respected representative Zekanovic, he is not, he loses his right to speak and therefore the next club of representatives will be the GLAS in the name of which the respected representative Goran Beus will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is one of the most painful topics that can be opened in Croatia, after the ones about the people we're still looking for, missing from the Homeland War. It's about something that's gone, too. The question is, can we ever find that again? Face, faith in your own country. The state is an invisible structure, it is actually a silent agreement, it is a social agreement of citizens who have decided with their own free will to build one structure that will give them a common interest, thus safeguarding their freedom and safeguarding the freedom of all members of the community, security. And which will establish generally accepted rules of the game by which they will all be equal to the laws that that state adopts, so that they can function, under the same conditions and by the same rules, and by the same state keeping the space of their creative, business and any other freedoms so that they can express themselves in their fullness as people with their dignity, on the other hand as people who know something, so people who create on the basis of their knowledge and skills and as people who have the right to confess those values they believe without being persecuted or turned into citizens of the lower order. So that's what the citizens expected from the state. One of the basic things is that the rules apply to everyone, that they're all equal before the law, that they're judged in the same way if it's necessary and that what's common isn't adopted as their own. And whenever there's a disturbance of such expectations, we're actually talking about corruption. Corruption as about a process where someone without any right, but with a position of power, reaches for something that isn't his to provide for himself or his loved one, on any basis, with a benefit that doesn't belong to him. Of course, in the nature of man it's all and everything and it's expected that there are such intensity in a large community, we can even say that it's also natural behavior, primarily because it's primordial, because it belongs to that type of society where violence was the basis for acquiring its own breakthrough. But that's why citizens expect the state to immediately recognise and sanction such damage and prevent them from multiplying. That is why citizens feel it is necessary to have courts to protect them, to be fair and swift. That is why citizens feel that the state must and should have a repressive apparatus to act quickly so as not to endanger their freedom and their right for some thief, a fool, an idiot, or whatever it is that goes against something that's common. It is based on the relationship of each individual to the state and the state that protects him, which is well managed by his and the common respect, that every other country, that man as an individual, and as a person, will ignore, reject, perhaps try and cheat on him in any case, will see that he is as far away from it as possible, and that he has as little to do with it as possible and that he participates in its affairs as possible. And then when this collective resistance is created that manifests itself among other things and does not pay taxes, the burden of community costs falls on those who do not resist, falls on the back of those who support themselves in the obligation of their honesty, and then they are easily said to be fools because there are others who are smart to get away with it. But then people like that start hating their own country, so they're not just gonna get away from it, not only are they gonna cheat on it, they're gonna tear it down. And it's interesting that they are full of the mouth of love for the state, that those who most drill in the chest are usually the biggest thieves and bandits. So, as soon as you see that someone has taken hold of the heart and raised his speech of patriotism for octave, you can be sure that at least he is a henman, and in the making of a great thief. And he doesn't have any problem with whether it's one of his contemporaries or someone with the opposite sex because he thinks it's a language that everyone understands is money. And that's why we unfortunately have corruption as an integral factor of the state, paradoxically because it's destructive, but with us it's an integral factor that works from top to bottom in the most banal and sophisticated ways, from local self-government in the smallest municipalities where everyone knows the principle of closeness and opposition is actually the key to your success. You want to do something with the community, you have to be in very good relations with the head of the parade, with the local sheriff, you won't even be able to cut the grass, you won't even be able to maintain the cemetery if you haven't arranged something with him. You want to get a job as a cleaning lady in elementary school, don't give God as a professor, and you think you can do it without being in familiarity and good relationships with the capo di gang, and that's every mayor because the city's units are local self-government founders of schools then you're a naive fool because it doesn't work like that. On the other hand, it also works in the largest city in the country. So what do you really think there's a theoretical chance that this model that works in small areas doesn't work in large areas because the mayor of the big city doesn't have to deal with who's going to get a job at a school or a local company. Oh, as you're wrong, they spend a lot of energy on exactly that, intensification, arrangement, setting up and jobs and positions because they draw their power out of it and it's become our daily life and it goes up to the highest heights. I don't know if you remember, in time there was a public controversy about whether one party took money from one entrepreneur because it was promised that half of the term would be sitting here as a deputy representative. I'm sure it was like that, that they were sitting between us. Because when you see the mind, the ability and skill of many colleagues and colleagues sitting in this House, you can't get the impression that that's exactly what brought them here. Honesty, honesty, knowledge and skills. God forbid you think it's something else. And everywhere, in the judiciary, in law, in health care. I've said it 100 times, I admire Croatia. I admire that Croatia stands on its feet at all. There's no one who went through it, no one who didn't love her without taking everything he could from her. He sucked like the female of that mantis bug, his own husband, so everyone who loved her treated Croatia, loved her until the last June, and today they love her until the last June. The state's attorney's been gone two months. Did any of you notice he wasn't here? Who's missing him? Have you ever heard of a state's attorney, to an exception, that's Dinko Cwitan, guarding anyone at all? So what is there to guard them when they have not resented anyone? There, he was the first and only one. And that it wouldn't be, if I were to talk about everyone, and not us, we still don't have the Code of Ethics in the Parliament, but still this Committee, Allow me just two more seconds, to deal with more conflict of interest than really structural problems that generate corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That should change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202178	Thank you very much. The next is the SDP representative club in which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202179	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleagues and colleagues. Well, the SDP Club will support this report. It also refers to the last 3 months of 2018 and the first 7 months of 2019, and I will remind myself a little in my debate, or we will start in order, exactly, to try to stick to that period, and then I want to sum up the things that, according to us, should be addressed in the SDP Representatives Club in the future, so as not to repeat those things from 2018 and '19. So, already slowly forgotten today, that in 2018, when we talk about corruption and everything about corruption that marked it, it is the attack of the ruling HDZ on the Committee of Conflicts of Interest, so many have forgotten today. Large HDZ aces such as Mr Kuštević are forgotten which, in 2018 precisely, during the period covered by this Report, was the main driver of the ruling party in dealing with this Committee. And what prompted the shooting is that famous flight to Helsinki, these are questions by the Commission and Prime Minister Plenkovic and many ministers in the government, to give an answer they did not want to give. And when they were brought to a wall, then Minister Kuščević went to write a new law aimed at shutting his mouth to the Commission for the determination of conflicts of interest. And that is why Croatia is located in a very, very low place by the perception of corruption in 2018, which is why Jovanovic spoke. And when you think it can't go any worse, it can always go worse when it comes to HDZ. So it comes in 2019, when Croatia still falls on that scale after the perception of corruption, which is no wonder. In the 7th month. Right within the limit, when this report ends, there's a major government reconstruction going on. So this government has left 14 ministers from its draft to this day. So, from the oath of this government. 14 ministers. Most of them left because of serious suspicions of corruption. We remember Kuštević and various people who had problems with this, their property cards, by proving their property and that was it. But this government doesn't need to be surprised at all. It has since its beginning in 2016 been a genetic code of corruption. So, in 2016, under cover of work by one of the Croatian rescue headquarters at the time, and this is the issue of Agrokora's biggest affair in the last 10 years, it's an affair of consultants, consultants in which half a billion kuna was pulled out of Agrokor by consultants of this government and paid it with the head of the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy. It's a start. Then we have a shut-down, a conflict of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and then we have 2019. It was hard to find a minister in the government who has a well-filled property card. It's HDZ. A colleague of mine said the other day, not HDZ Beros and Bozinovic. It's Kuščević, it's Maric, it's Dalic, it's those who left because of serious doubts about corruption, and it should be reminded. After that, this unfortunate pandemic comes, unhappy for society and government, the authorities act like we've forgotten everything. That we forgot what this government was doing with its entire mandate. Not gentlemen, this last two months and three washes what you've been doing for three years. He won't even be able to. And citizens see it, as much as it seems to you in these government trust polls that it's different today, it's no different. Often these days we talk about masks and gentlemen, the masks will soon fall. Already now after the first months of fighting this pandemic, things are slowly opening up and that is what we want to warn the SDP about for the future period. So, the other day Greco warned that there was a serious danger, a serious danger of corruption through this pandemic that hit Europe and the world. And this is seen through the accumulation of health care prices, which is what my colleague Jovanovic was talking about, and that's what we want to warn you about, but that's what's going on with us. Unfortunately, we're not immune. We're not immune. Here, yesterday, the day before it was found out that a company that was founded practically a few months ago and in the third month it was supposed to get a job from the government to get 20 million kuna of protective equipment and that should be her first job, then it's in the 3rd month. That job was canceled, and three days ago, we find out that we're still doing this job. Now, maybe it's all right there, maybe it's not, but here, can I start a company today and in three months, Mr. Bacic, from this government, I get a job worth 20 million kuna? Here, that's what I want to know. I am, I don't know, it's said, today Minister Horvat speaks on television, it's doctors, the owners of that company. Sir graduated last year. And, okay, here, good job. Here, can I start the company today, will you give me a 20 million kuna job? You won't, you won't. I wouldn't give you, not you personally, but I wouldn't give those who choose that job a commission or I'm a member of the HDZ. It's the only way to do it, it's the things that in this pandemic now that the masks are falling open to us some new perspectives. The other thing is, we have a whole series of break-ins in nursing homes. And how is it that in every home where a breakthrough occurred, unfortunately and which is problematic, when you bury a little deeper, at the head of that facility are mostly HDZ members who then turn out to be in love there. In Dalmatia, we all know what happened, the former mayor who was set up there, there's been a breakthrough, millions of mistakes, 10 days users had symptoms, it didn't show up, in Koprivnica a lady who's known for having been prescribed an apartment to get a place in her home, it's HDZ. It's HDZ and we're going to start reminding our citizens about it. And what threatens us, a great danger, is to purchase this equipment, it is to profit in health care, and that is unfortunately this earthquake that hit Zagreb. It opens up a big space for new corruption, and we all need to keep track of it, and we all need to take care of it. And finally, let me remind you, so we've been warning all along that this government, this government has thrown its paws at almost every institution in the Republic of Croatia. For months we talked about the State Inspectorate Act changing, that this place was being set up by Mr. Mikulić, and we were convinced that, I don't know, we see the white mice and the wrong Andrija. And the wrong Andrew. But here we are today. And I wouldn't mind that Mr. Mikulić, who later said, well, yes, I am politically appointed and remains president of the Zagreb city HDZ. At such an institution, the State Inspectorate that plays a major role in Croatian society today, I would have no objection to him being there, having qualifications. I won't judge it now, but his predecessor said he wouldn't take it as a driver either. And today in the first activity of the Inspectorate, what is he doing? He's closing restaurants. There's no hearing, it's running a story against the government, and now you haven't replaced it, because it's the internal relations of the HDZ. Generally, the state is a hostage of relations and staffing in HDZ and we will begin to remind our citizens of that. And the prime minister said the other day that this Staff too, so that people don't cheat, that this Staff is also a political body and that they make political decisions. Only those who go in favor of HDZ and the government. And we in the SDP won't stop repeating it. Unfortunately, citizens should be reminded, fortunately, we're going out quickly, here, we're giving in to measures, here, I hope that even after the 11.5. when this 3rd wave gives up we'll start talking about these things, let's see who's been doing what he's been doing for three and a half years. And who did what before. Anyway, I'm going to say once again, unfortunately, corruption has been genetically recorded in HDZ since the privatisation robbery in the '90s, through the FIMI Media Ivo Sanader affair, which, even now after 10 years of this affair, is being tried by HDZ as a party in Croatian courts for corruption, to all the things that this government has done. If Mr Plenkovic didn't want to stop it, he didn't want to disintegrate it because he didn't have the strength within HDZ, but he just won the elections now, so as some legitimacy, I don't know. But he's responsible because on him as chief of HDZ and chief of government, it was a responsibility to prevent these things from happening for the last three and a half years. And we heard here today from our HDZ colleagues that in 4, that's what I want to say, in the fourth quarter of this year, the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that we don't have to worry about anything, that everything is going to be okay. Well, the question is, are we going to have a government in the fourth quarter of this year? Question. Anyway, in the next few days, we're going to remind ourselves of this, and when we see all this, it's no wonder that citizens are losing their confidence in politics, because in the end, there's a majority of the government on bought-out MPs, and it's all wrong and it's all wrong and it's all wrong, and that's why citizens lose their trust and we're falling for the corruption perception index. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202180	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HSU, SNAGA, independent MPs and New Policy in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I agree mostly that my predecessor here spoke for this speaker, but I disagree with one, that we will speak, we are, we are talking now and we will talk about corruption tomorrow because it is cancer-earth Croatian society. It destroys Croatian society, and because there is a pattern of behaviour. If we had taken any good steps in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia, then surely the Croatian Prime Minister would have followed those words he said in 2018, and he said that one of the topics for the EU presidency would be the fight against corruption. Once said and never mentioned again. Of course, how can he mention that there will be a fight, and we are falling into the perception of corruption by international institutions for 10, 20 or more, more places. What does that mean? It's the biggest confession that nothing has been done, but nothing in the fight against corruption. The Croatian party of pensioners, our club of independent representatives, SNAGE and New Politics will support this report for technical reasons. It is the only body of the Croatian Parliament to be chaired by the opposition. I think of these important, so important bodies that talk about the essence of this society about the values of this society, about the values of this society, about the values of these systems in this society. Look, you can't, Mr. Bačić, you can wave your head, you can do whatever you want, whatever the only body that deals with the essence of Croatian society, whether there will be corruption or there will be no corruption. You cannot say that anything will be done in the fight against corruption if you do not allow competent institutions to define, but not those, not those under the pressure of the ruling party, but with all law professors, with all free intellectuals in Croatia, do not define what forms of behaviour or patterns of the functioning of corruption are. How can you fight something, it's you, it's the situation that it's all normal and everything is normal. E, it's not normal. We here, we have tolerated political corruption here for four years. I'm sorry, get out on one list and go to another political group, support the one you weren't even with is political corruption. Someone got something for it. Someone got something for it. Don't tell me it's not political corruption. This political corruption from this high home is being transferred to the local level, to the county, so we contaminate to the counties, to municipalities, to cities, so we contaminate the political space, from where, from here from the Croatian Parliament, because we give a pattern of behaviour for politics at local level. Are we responsible for what's going on here? Was it supposed to be at that moment when someone couldn't get the government to call the parliamentary elections? Yeah, it was supposed to be at all costs because principle in politics as well as principle in life has no alternative, no alternative. My people, do you, without talking about what's borderline with corruption, which is what people do and protect other people's interests and conduct public duties. Is it normal for the Croatian Association of Doctors to arrange supplementary health insurance where she wants and forces doctors to be in Croatia health insurance from Croatian public health care co-financed for all their services? Does anyone have a right to do that? Does anyone with a membership fee have the right to offer to be, to pay their energy through another distribution house? Is he right? Is it logical that the Department of Defence contracts additional health insurance for the healthiest part of the population by 10 lip differences in price with a private insurance company? Are those the halls of corruption? They did. Can corruption be suspected? Why? Did anyone sell the contest? Why? What's the interest? Is there a greater interest in a private insurance company than a public insurance company that is ours, which is paid for by public money? It doesn't exist, but it's Croatia. Of course I do, and I want to talk to my colleague, today and tomorrow and in the election about all this. Is the shift of so many ministers not enough proof that we are a deeply corrupt society? And there's only one thing I want to do to defend all the honorary colleagues and colleagues sitting here, so we're not in the Croatian Parliament, so we're not all immune to corruption, so there were cases, but corrupt action, which is 50 times more out of executive power, out of the power that shares money. And be aware of that, dear citizens and citizens, when you judge corruption, where it comes from, and who spends it. So, I'm just trying to fight, fight our evil, talk about it and tell you what to pay attention to, what to pay attention to, and, of course, ultimately, dear citizen and citizen, you are judges, although every 4 years and you, it depends on what our next periods will be in the fight against corruption. I wish the National Council a much better period in some of the next mandates in terms of having greater powers to fight corruption, this is how the status recording is, this is the report, but this report, which we will adopt for the sake of collegiality and correctness, will not help too much in the perception of ourselves, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about the index of corruption, and will certainly not help and will help even less in the perception of external ones who judge by some objective parameters as to how much the Croatian perception index is, the perception of corruption in Croatia. So they have instruments to measure unlike us who don't even know patterns and we don't want to admit the patterns by which corruption works. Therefore, to conclude once again, we support this report, but we hope that some next year will make a slightly greater contribution, a little more thinking that this carcinogenic tissue in Croatian society is simply being treated by removing it, it needs solid, precise mechanisms and principles that are not abandoned in politics, in the economy, in the public administration, in any activity in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202182	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, president of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202183	Thank you, Vice President. So a few notes, given that part of it, that the clubs of representatives have ended, and there is also an indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report which has accepted and supported the report with two notes concerning the topic that was most often present, which is exactly the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and New Law, so I want to say something about it. One joke at the very beginning, there are no colleagues of Hrelja, but then we might wish that in the next term, and here you are colleagues of Hrelja, in the next term HDZ leads the National Council because this would mean that it will be in opposition. The future National Council is always led by an opposition representative and this is very good. It's a good solution and I think it's one of the advantages of the National Council. So, as far as the new law is concerned, and I think it is crucial, and that is why I want to intervene at this point, so we must listen to what the GRECO evaluation team has told us, which considers it necessary to quote "an additional strengthening of the commission, both in terms of strengthening technical capacities and in terms of strengthening human resources, particularly in the light of the effective verification of the data contained in the asset status report and improving the capacity of the commission to obtain information that it needs to verify the data from the property cards". GRECO considers Article 5. The law which is disputed and which is most talked about, therefore, the principles of action, the central feature of the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest whose enforcement is necessary. Therefore, the general principles of action in the exercise of public authority are considered to be a key provision of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. GRECO therefore recommends strengthening the powers of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest so that in cases where the commission finds that an official has violated the law may also have concrete consequences such as the annulment of decisions whose decision-making has put his private interest ahead of the public. Therefore, GRECO looks with concern at cases where officials refuse to submit requested documents to the Commission and recommend that officials, regardless of the rank they hold in public authorities, provide all the requested information to the body. Therefore, I also hope from the debate at the National Council it was in this direction that this law, which is foreseen for the last quarter of this year, will indeed further strengthen the powers and technical opportunities of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. As for the proposal of fellow Scybol, that we have a thematic session if the National Council has a chance to mention the end of this call, about the media, we have already had these sessions and it would be good to see what happened in the meantime with media independence, with the freedom of the media where our conclusion was that in Croatia the media is free, but that journalists in these media are not free and rarely subject to autocensorships that are more dangerous and than censorship. Also, he spoke to his colleague, Beus, on behalf of us GRECO, that we did not bring an ethical code of parliamentary representatives, and that would also be one of the tasks in the next period that we should accomplish and solve. If we're gonna make it, we'll see. As for the other remarks from the representatives' clubs, so Mr. Grmoja spoke about the Sabelak case, we will try to push the case to the end, whether we will succeed depending on how much the Ministry of European and Foreign Affairs will respond to requests related to the Sabelak case, which they have so far refused, and the Ombudsman has also not actually shown himself about our request to access the information. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202184	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202185	Thank you very much. You spoke of a new Law to prevent conflicts of interest, and I would like to say once again that for me, the decision to make it in the 4th quarter of this year is scandalous. She was supposed to be brought in in four quarters last year at the latest. 4th quarter of this year means in the last 3 months of 2020 there will be some other assembly of the Croatian Parliament, there will be some new government, there will be all new things and the question of whether this new majority will at that time be a priority, or whether it will be the handover of the authorities and what it will do. And HDZ has been dealing with this law for 2 years, so since Kuštević, they've been running through this law since 2018 and trying to do something. And then it's impossible for me that they haven't done it in two years, and now they're doing it for the sake of this kind of report and for the sake of GRECO and for the sake of the EU and the Presidency, they said it's in the plan, we're doing it. That turns out to be a done deal, and that's far from the done deal, and I think it should be pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202186	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202187	Thank you, fellow Djujic, so I will repeat that the National Council has, on several occasions and at a regular and thematic session, had this topic and precisely the problem of the principle of action which is something that is more controversial to colleagues from HDZ and which Kuščević wanted to operate in such a way that this article 5 is abolished, and he says that officials in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially safeguarding their own credibility and dignity of their entrusted duty and citizens' trust. So this article is everything, this item of this article is everything. It cannot be said that this article should be abolished, and that is exactly the direction of the recommendation of GRECO, which I have quoted for a pay phone that points out that this Article 5 is the same. In fact, the core of the entire Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and I hope that fellow Turkalj who will probably propose a new law with his team will go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202188	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased with the work of the National Council and I commend the work of the National Council. Even more so, I think that on this topic that you are talking about right now, you should still hold the thematic sessions because the commission, and later in an individual debate for the purpose of unlawfully and with its own ignorance or intention, creates an impression that individual officials, first of all, are putting pressure on them because they are not acting according to the law, and I believe that they will be warned by the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court, in which they will not actually be able to cause damage to individual officials for whom the SDP is then seeking to resign on the basis of the fact that they have acted under the law, which the officials have acted under the law, but I will tell you individually. However, it is evident that because of such a procedure you did not seek the resignation of your party president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202190	Thank you. Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202191	Comrade Bačić, this is now where we disagree, but for the right of us to say that the commission worked well is the opinion of GRECO who is just making the opposite opinion of the decision of the two judges of the Administrative Court in the case of Prime Minister Plenkovic, the case of showing, so where they sided that the commission is doing the job as well as the fact that in the next term it is also necessary to ensure that they are even more successful and that they have the possibility and sanctioning specifically related to Article 5 of the principle of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202192	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202193	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I think we have a problem in Croatian society to be evaluated by external institutions based on the information we give them. And I don't doubt this assessment of GRECO I think she's okay, but I'm asking you something else. As much as in perception, not in perception, but in the fight against corruption, an application of complete OIB that we have been avoiding has been in place for decades. Then it would all be known, as far as we have 10, 15, 20 years ago, as much as there is today, where it came from, can be traced through the IRS, through everything can be traced, then everything is transparent. So it's one of the assumptions of fighting corruption and it would work without even presenting to the public patterns of behaviour or the growth of corruption because the results of this corruption would be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202194	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202195	Yes, my colleague Hrelja, I believe that we can all agree that corruption will flourish as long as it is worth it, and it is still worth it in Croatia. This also shows the duration of court proceedings, this shows judgments for corrupting, which shows the current Law on the Origin of Assets, which is simply such as to encourage everyone to go into corrupt acts. And you are quite right, some cities, some municipalities, fellow Ahmetovic is here, in their budgets already set out in the applications that the National Council has asked for in its conclusion to be done in all public authorities, ministries, public enterprises, so every citizen by entering the municipality's website, county, ministry, a simple tool can see what money is spent on from their salaries. And that is the way, so transparency, ensuring transparency is the way to restore trust in institutions and successfully fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202196	Comrade Schibol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202197	I'm looking for a break. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Youth List Club to point out the possible corruption committed by Raiffeisen Bank by trying to influence the Constitutional Court. This time, the CNB launched surveillance over Raiffeisen Bank to investigate what were motives and what was actually going on and to investigate the very documentation of this information and this news. However, at that time Governor Vujcic said the results would come quickly, as the investigation is known at the end, but Governor Vujčić has not yet informed the public about the results of the investigation of Raiffeisen Bank which tried to compromise the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia and I believe that we must point out and ask the CNB to submit this report to the Croatian Parliament. I also mentioned that money laundering is happening in our banking system. So certain media are passing on this information, and there has also been increased supervision of the National Bank over banks operating in the Republic of Croatia, parliamentary representatives know nothing about it, so there is no official information on this issue, so this time I ask the CNB to declare what is going on in the Croatian banking system, whether money is being washed, who is being laundered, whose interests have Raiffeisen Bank tried to compromise the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202198	Thank you very much. I'll give you a break, see you at 3:00. Party at 14.56. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202200	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I said earlier in the replica that I support the work of this National Council and given the enthusiasm of Mr. Hrelje with the good work of Mr. Jovanovic, I can tell him that in the second term Mr. Jovanovic will also act as honorable and as important a function and duties in the Croatian Parliament. As far as the work relating to the work of the National Council itself is concerned, I support all those thematic sessions where the work of certain state bodies has been troubled, and above all, what I want to talk about, it is the Committee for Decision on conflict of interest. I have been in HS for a year, and on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and here at HS, I am saying that the Commission is not working in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and I have cited two, two moments for which I now see the Croatian judiciary and the Croatian judicial authority giving me full rights. First of all, the Committee for the Decision on the Conflict of Interest, which does its job in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, problems the fact that the party to the procedure, which is, in the case where the Committee implements the procedure, the official, regardless of whether it is ruling or opposition, demonstrates his legal ability to request the exemption of a particular member of the Committee or of the President of the Committee or the Head of Procedure to the extent that this fact, which the party in the procedure, is, therefore, using its legal right, is problematicd in a way that this is interpreted by the Commission and then by the SDP as a harsh violation in the independence of a state body, such as the Commission. Since the first day of the HDZ, we have argued that this is nothing controversial, that the Committee in its composition can be shown about the request of the official, to say whether or not that official, that member of the Committee in the conflict of interest and to continue to conduct a procedure, to which the decision of the official will have the right to appeal to the Administrative Court. And the fact that some official is seeking the exemption of a member of the Committee or of the President of the Committee has been raised to the level of the Croatian judicial authority, so the SDP has already changed attitudes on this issue, I said once more often than Mr. Peja Grbin changes socks. One time, the Board for Election and Appointing of HS was to decide on the request of officials, and the second time, HS, third time the High Administrative Court. No one needs to, but the Committee is only obliged to do what it does and to create the impression that this official is rudely interfering in the work of an independent state body. And the other thing, no one, Mr. Jovanovic, in HDZ is against the article. 5, of course, Art. 5. talks about the principle of behaviour of officials, the principle of conduct of his duty, but it is an auxiliary tool for the Commission to determine whether or not he is an officer in conflict of interest. Because what does the Committee do? The commission, if it has found, for example, Mr Bernardic, that he is not in conflict of interest when it comes to the school he attended and for which he has not paid for her attendance, found that he has violated the principle of duty. If you've broken the law, then you must be sanctioned. It's a violation of the law. And not to say it's not a conflict of interest but it's a violation of the principle of duty and no sanctions. That's not a violation of the law, and that's what we've been saying since the first day of HDZ, that the Commission needs to be established, and that's what it is, whether it's an official in conflict of interest or not. And to determine that, he needs as an auxiliary tool. The 5th principle of conduct of duty. But then you don't say it or he hasn't broken it, is or isn't in conflict of interest because you can't tell someone that he's guilty, and you can't give him a sentence in accordance with that law because the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest doesn't prescribe any measure, no sanctions for any violation of the law. 5. That's what the Committee is doing and now, as far as I have the information, it's already, that's true, the Administrative Court has found that the Committee is doing the wrong thing, and now it's in the High Administrative Court, we're going to start by saying what the High Administrative Court is going to say. Therefore, this should be understood, because the more the team is considered to be a harsh violation of the law and conflict of interest, which is why you in the SDP are seeking resignation for these officials. If you're so credible, then you're they also needed a resignation for their president who [[Intruder: Thank you.]] also, who was found to have violated [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the principle of conduct of duty. [[We have several replicas.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202201	He is the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202202	Your thesis is that someone can't be guilty, if they're not sanctioned, here's the thing. And in the same sentence two seconds later, you say that the law states that there is no sanction or sanction for breach of that article. So, someone's finding that the article was broken, but the law doesn't have a sanction, so what haven't you changed? It's a path, and no, it's a intentional hole that could be manipulated like you're manipulating in HDZ. And now I'm going to tell you about these cases of Prime Minister Plenkovic. So, personally, I personally, this is my personal position in the event of a show I see nothing controversial and I think the commission has made a mistake here. I can elaborate it, it's my opinion, it's not my fault, but the fact that HDZ has been refusing to give information on the trip to Helsinki for two years now that your party officials have been travelling to the country's expense. at a party meeting, is this in accordance with the law or whether HDZ respects the laws of this country? [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202203	The answer of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić, please. Thank you, thank you, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The conflict of interest is respected fellow Djujic, a situation or situation in which the official uses his public office to obtain private material benefits, it is a conflict of interest and nothing more and nothing less. And let the commission determine whether Mr Bernardic thus provided himself with a certain material advantage that the school paid him instead to lay her down, that is, they said he was not in conflict of interest, but that he violated the principle of duty, I say he did not. And there's Mr. Bernardic right. And for your information, my colleague Bernardic did the same way as HDZ officials did because he finally understood, read here, and I'm saying what the media is saying, that Davor Bernardic filed a sad administrative court against that commission that you claimed HDZ is putting on them a rough push for their actions, making them act as they did. Check in Croatian courts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202205	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202206	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you can try to get your emotions in here, energy, loud talk, but people are clear enough on plastic examples. So look at this Mikulić, so what's not a notorious situation, is a man, we've been making up these 30 laws to become a state inspector, and now it turns out that his wife is employed in a state-owned company without a competition, net, since she graduated college. So who can defend it and who does it in the Republic of Croatia except HDZ and Bandic in the City of Zagreb, where you hold the stand. How can you defend that man who shuts down bars for a desk in front of a bar doesn't get people to work, but he has his wife arrested, on 16-17,000 kunas after she's finished college, which is probably the college you pay for, so you graduate, and at age 47, they recognize talent in the supply buildings or in that company, I don't know that they need her. So please, I can't let people see it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202207	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Maras, for every solution and decision by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in which any HDZ official or minister who was claimed to have violated the principle of duty, you asked for resignation, until the same time you asked for resignation. The government of which you were a member, there was no minister who was not found in the conflict of interest, there was no minister. I apologize if he was 1 or 2 of the 20 ministers, so 18 ministers were in a classic conflict of interest, not a principle of duty, but a classic conflict of interest, none of them resigned. It's not that weird. Isn't that the approach, when you're telling me now, whether or not you have any doubts about looking at what's in violation of the principle on the one hand and that's the basic condition that you have to step down from duty, and at the same time as your member, your minister, the minister of that government, is caught in a classic notorous conflict of interest, then you can't stand to resign, nor are you looking for it. Be a little bit. And you're the one who's credible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202209	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, and the pardoned MPs Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202210	I quote: "According to the 2018 corruption perception index of the Republic of Croatia, there are 60 places that still place it among the corrupt countries. The Republic of Croatia is lagging behind and stagnating in the fight against corruption." Dear colleagues, Croatia is a corrupt country, black on white, based on clear and unequivocal criteria Croatia is a corrupt country, and the judiciary should be motivated to resolve corruption, and we have seen on the case of our state's attorney that our judiciary is motivated. And literally every day we see explicit examples of the corruption that we have here in recent times of wages and lives. We see the case of the House for the Elderly in Split, the case of the House for the Elderly in Koprivnica, and the case of purchase of the apartment by the state-run subsidy of local leaders, which should not be, and the case of purchase by the State-owned Deputy Director of the Agency, who assigns these subsidies, and the case of the direct allocation of the booths to Zagreb's advent, and the case of the spending of the budget reserve in that same city, so the engagement of former companies of certain ministers on state projects, and the case of the restoration of the Franciscan student dwellings by other ministers, so the raising of millions of urban resourceic kunas from ATMs, can be listed indefinitely. And no one, nothing at all. We are all declared against corruption, but there are really too many people out of corrupt behavior and there are benefits, too many for Croatian and European standards that we so often and without covering. It's one thing to play a European, and it's another thing to be, because the person who really is doesn't name it in his best circle of people such a team. He does not deafen himself to questions about these cases, not justice by political planting, he does not allow under his patronage the perception of corruption by citizens to grow and that the country he leads into corrupts. In our corrupt country, we are officially fighting corruption, so-called corruption. self-evaluation of public authorities. This means that the public authority responsible for corruption and which is involved in this same corruption assesses its integrity and integrity. And if the grade is high, of course, the honesty of public authorities is great. And I don't suppose the public government is responsible for corruption. And according to that same public authority, I guess they're fools. No public authority in the corrupt state wants to be evaluated by citizens. While public authorities are self-evaluating by then, they will be looted, and while there are prey, there are authorities. If citizens were to assess the integrity of public authorities, they would also ask for publicly visible, transparent and accessible data. If Croatia were not a corrupt state, citizens could see everything spent on the budget and not thinking about the data available today. People don't see anything from that data. I mean here the full transparency of spending public money from a budget where every payment and every bill is visible, whether it's the salaries of employees and public administration, whether it's lunch, whether it's the road, whether it's public procurement and large construction projects, and that's the only way to tell citizens that you don't think they're fools. But Croatia is corrupt and this information about spending public money from the budget can be seen in only 4 units of local self-government. You can't see this kind of information about the execution of public money from the state budget at the state level. In two of these four transparent cities, i.e. the municipality, the public authority is acting as SDP and in the remaining two HSLS and independent. We're waiting for the ruling. But the SDP goes on, introducing real transparency into other municipalities and cities because using transparency for the PR is not a fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is to make all your team be transparent. So no one can think to steal or black out on travel orders and a single kuna of our citizens. And that is the way, ladies and gentlemen, to which the SDP has set out because it is our obligation to show the Croatian citizens that we are aware of their fate and that we want to make sure that their money is managed legally, transparently and responsibly. The SDP will seek real transparency at all levels, in all public institutions, everywhere the money of Croatian citizens is spent. Only then can we judge ourselves with a fair and civilized country. Transparency of spending public money simply has to become our general social definition. And it's uncompromising.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202211	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202212	... Thank you, Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Corruption is not only when you give an envelope with money to a doctor to operate on you. Corruption isn't just that when you give someone a job without a public competition. Corruption isn't just that when you go on official trips untransparently. I'd like to talk here about a specific kind of corruption. I'll call it political corruption. When people favor each other within the same party because they can do so and then they bring to some positions, but completely incompetent people who then do unprecedented damage to the public. And politics should act in the interest of the public, it's a basic task. Here, we now see this unfortunate Andrija Mikulic. Really, what Maras says, we had to change 30 laws. We were saying, don't do that, so it's spread across the ministries of the inspector's service, now you're going to make one masodon just to get Andrija Mikulić the leading place to do it. You wouldn't listen. And now, what are the results, the vermin, the man is a pest. We listen every day to presses, to make these masks cost me no idea what, 20 or more kunas, these some and a half 100 that protect, so where's the find of his inspections? So we're all curious, are these people being punished? Who are these people, so that's their job? Instead, he closes down a restaurant there, and a man struggles to earn a salary so he can pay the workers. But he's completely reckless. See, therefore, this minister, therefore, the minister of social care, who therefore has no idea of his own resources, and whose sentences therefore have no absolute meaning, and who can therefore not speak a single sentence, without saying 50 times in it. So listen to the Prime Minister, so you've replaced 14 ministers. You had guts. So give your shifts and that minister that we no longer have to look at her, if anything else and protect the homes for the elderly because she, she has no vision at all, has no picture of what she would have to do as a minister. Here's how long it takes for this unfortunate Scissor whose protégés have had fever for 10 days, and this has been tipped by an epidemiologist by a nurse at home. No, he didn't even call every day, but he didn't have to come to work, which I don't care. But that he phoned all his employees and asked them if they had taken their temperature today. Well, if someone's got a fever, then call someone else professional to control them. No, he didn't think of that. So how many people are going to die because of an incompetent, incompetent minister and an incompetent HDZ man who's there because he said so I have to work somewhere. Then look, this minister who attacked President Milanovic. I mean, yeah, it's completely incomprehensible to me. A minister told me that he spends his budget money, to help print the philoust newspapers. So is that what budget money is for? And this tent boy, who, along with his tenters, took out gas bottles and threatened to terrorise citizens, is the minister, who, beware, is attacking the president of the republic chosen by most citizens. Well, I don't know what's wrong with these people. And, Prime Minister, I don't know how you don't see it. Okay, they're breaking their reputation, but why do you care about their reputation? But they violate your reputation, so keep it safe. Keep him safe while you can still keep him safe. Because if they continue like this, I'm afraid your reputation will be very serious too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202213	The next debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202214	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. I have to admit that this whole situation where we're discussing this law, that is, this report is a little amazing, here's the Vice President of the Parliament with us, there are the SDP's only representatives left, there's no one left, there's no one left, no ruling representative. We're standing by because we can't all get into the assembly because of the prevention against, the fight against the virus, the coronary virus, and there's basically no one but us in the assembly. And we're talking about one subject that's been recorded every day. We are talking about corruption, we are talking about a de facto HDZ because citizens of the past month, as said by fellow Sprays yesterday, watch at 2 p.m., he called it this satirically, the Holy Mass at 2 p.m., Mr. Beros, who conveys information as to how many infected and citizens must know that Mr. Beros is not HDZ, Mr. Beros accidentally became minister because Mr. Kujundzic had to leave because of his corruption affairs and, in fact, Prime Minister Plenkovic chose to become a minister and now uses his popularity because he has received the trust of these months and some days of Croatian citizens to present it as some new HDZ. As a matter of fact, HDZ is not Beros, HDZ is Kuščević, HDZ is this Mr. Inspector Mikulić from the city of Zagreb who has the same property problems, so he got away with it, so he complemented the property cards, but what is more important, he is in Zagreb the most trusted partner of the mayor Bandić and in the form and manner of his duties, in essence he agrees most. When you see how Mr. Mikulić hired his wife in 46.7 years after graduation, otherwise, it is good that people are educated all their lives and that they acquire knowledge, but here it does not seem to me that it is also a need for additional education, but simply to fulfill the form in order to ensure that HDZ takes care of the wife of its prominent member and president of the town of Zagreb as director at the state firm at 16.17 thousand kuna. And that's HDZ, and that's what we need to talk about. Just as it should be said that HDZ is now being seen, in Zagreb there is something against the collection of cemetery and cemetery management fees, and de facto at the head of the company is a former HDZ player who went to Milan Bandic's party a few months ago. And that's the same HDZ. And HDZ, now unwittingly trying to wrap around the city of Zagreb, has been de facto holding Bandic in power for 3 years. If there was no support for the HDZ in the city of Zagreb, there would be no corruption in Zagreb through Milan Bandic because they would have solved the problem long ago and removed it from the agenda, and such a small division of functions and directorial places, for example, in Zagreb's Plinar, which, by the way, has not connected a month and a few days of our citizens to gas so that they can have heating and hot water, they got a director, so the director hired half of the HDZ branch from Pescenica or I don't know, some other city districts and that's HDZ. And HDZ is equal to Milan Bandic, Bandic is equal to corruption. It is all a sign of equality, and I must say that for this reason, we will not get rid of corruption or such procedures, nor will a colleague of Jovanovic have less to write in his reports until we get rid of such a corrupt government. And therefore, I would like to see HDZ through Mikulić because it is the real HDZ, the HDZ who is an inspector, who does not control people who have earned on masks, who have earned on disinfectants, who have now earned in the city of Zagreb by charging 3 times as many cranes as they were a month ago, and a half, two days that they have not at all, but have not given at all, and are taking hundreds and hundreds of thousands of kunas from, of people who are unhappy and who are now experiencing the most difficult moments of their life. Why doesn't Mikulić control these HDZs in these companies? Yes, it is a real question and I am sorry, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, that we do not have the opportunity to talk here in front of several MPs, that we do not face HDZs who de facto represent this corrupt government, which is not there for Mikulic or Celic. I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Cellic here to discuss with him a little what Mr. Mikulić is doing, as much as the HDZ employees in town, how different things could have been, that HDZ didn't hold Mr. Bandic's stand. While HDZ holds the stand, Mr Bandic, until HDZ decides it is over, as far as it is concerned, and until it is personally benefited from the Bandic HDZ, Bandic will continue to support it. So did Prgomet, a month and 2 days across this town in Zagreb, did anyone see him, did he see Prgomet, did he visit the city, was he overseeing the work, the works from, on the recovery of the earthquakes No, unfortunately that's not what Prgomet's doing. He's hiding in a mouse hole. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And does not call upon the congregation that the opposition has ordered to call for us to solve the problems that have accumulated these few days. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202215	The next debate will be the respect of MP Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Never in the Croatian Parliament, no matter how many of us are in the assembly, it is not important to talk about the problem of corruption, the murky jobs that we learn about through the media or the murky jobs that we learn about in some other ways. So, already today, it was one of the jobs or contracts concluded that aroused a certain kind of suspicion, which is therefore a job that was concluded with a relatively recently established Pula firm that purchases medical and protective equipment. First, the government made a decision on the procurement of protective equipment through this particular business entity, then the decision was withdrawn to find out yesterday through the media that a particular medical and protective equipment is being obtained through the company. I'm not saying it's a corrupt business, but it's required, and I hope there's going to be an explanation of the economy minister, Mr Horvat, who talked about it in the media this morning, so it's a business we don't need to doubt. In fact, neither this crown crisis nor any other time should be a time of cloudy affairs, hiding and intransparentity and hiding information about the public. So, we want the least we can ask is that the government actually publishes transparently and I hope that it will also do so for all Croatian citizens and citizens. So, which companies are engaged in the purchase of protective equipment, medical supplies, which are also the subject of the publication of which Croatia receives donations from protective equipment. We know it's some business that's been done with Chinese companies, but it's also good to know if there's any more donations to these secret sheiks as recently as it was a case. What I have also requested from the Minister of Labour and Pension System, and I hope that this will indeed happen as it is announced next week, which is that the Government publishes, respectively, which are employers who use these state support for jobs, how much State funding they have received, and of course how many workers are asked for such funds because we also know from the media, as well as from citizens and citizens who address us that unfortunately there are also those employers who do not pay the full amount of these support, but are keeping some for themselves. Already mentioned by the state inspector, Mr. Mikulic, the general assessment is not up to that function that HDZ has placed it on. Therefore, we also ask that the State Inspectorate indeed do everything to check whether and to what extent prices have increased, for example, food or basic hygiene supplies, which the Government, as we know, has frozen or returned to those prices from January 30, 31, and we also know that the prices of certain hygiene supplies, food and so on. We have increased by several times, and we hope that these unloved situations that we followed last week, which is the closure of the restaurant because some table was not placed on the left or right, we won't actually look at it anymore. What is now revealed, however, is that Mr. Mikulić is somehow connected to some friends and business partners of Mr. Bandic, who is actually synonym in Croatia for corruption. And of course we can thank the free media which unfortunately is not too much in Croatia, but there are, therefore, still not our investigative journalism quite on our knees. So we see that they're hunting together and who knows what they're actually doing during that hunt. A colleague Maras daily points to problems that arise in the acquisition of construction material, for example, which is intransparent when it comes to the restoration of the homes of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens in Zagreb, and since the assessment that the reconstruction of Zagreb will also cost several 10ths of a billion kuna, I am really afraid that this will take place in the direction of Bandic, HDZ and their partners. In the end, integrity, credibility, trust, free media and publicly available data, not lobbying and secret night meetings are actually something that will restore confidence in Croatian institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202217	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was to be co-workers of Mihael Zmajlovic, he is not, he is losing his right to debate, and the following will be spoken by respected representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I, in my individual debate, want to look at in essence, not so much at this report in this part of the report that we've been dealing with, and what's in this report, is basically the guidelines that come from this report, but I'm going to be really referring to GRECO, which is that citizens understand better, the international, international commission to prevent conflicts of interest let's say so. So we have a commission to determine conflicts of interest, and the international body involved is GRECO and gives some guidance and guidance. Mostly what I'm trying to say, what GRECO is currently referring to, is that it needs especially in this pandemic and crisis that has affected the whole world to pay attention to the possibility of corruption that could result from this crisis, and there is primarily the purchase of protective equipment, the purchase in Croatia, let's say here we often have this story about masks, and in Croatia, at this moment, there is an earthquake big in Zagreb, so there is room for corruption. And now that we're talking about these masks, the government can say this again, we've brought to the government's session one day before now a month and a half of that day's decision to ban the purchase of certain products, including health equipment, but also bread, flour, etc., so traders can't increase it to a higher price than that date, but in practice it happens. Masks are gone I don't know how much worse, food products collect significantly in some stores, it's seen in accounts when comparisons are made, people on Facebook every day publish accounts from the period before the government's decision and after the government's decision and where is the problem? That's where you're supposed to be controlling the State Inspectorate and prescribing fines. And what does the State Inspectorate in Croatia deal with today? He's working on closing a couple of restaurants because someone put a table a foot to the left or a meter to the right. I mean, it's unserious, but there's nothing else we can expect when the head of that inspectorate stands the person who came there exclusively and only politically for trade within the ruling party. So that's what's causing us a serious threat to corruption in the future. The other thing is this story with the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb, so nothing can be good in this story. Already, people suspect the acquisition of material that is right to the level below that you do not have to compete, so with friends who are leaning against the mayor and now here, I will now ask myself a question: do the ministers in this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic feel like donkeys because they are their salary for the 3rd month. Donated to rebuild the city of Zagreb into a fund from which Milan Bandic provides business to his colleagues at this difficult moment? With the money of ministers and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who then urged all officials in Croatia to give up salaries in the 3rd month. I don't know if it's normal for them, is it normal for them? Here are the things I'm interested in today. So it's obviously happening already on the eye right now first miss and there's no reaction. Here I was speaking on behalf of the club and a colleague spoke earlier. This story with the acquisition of masks from this company that was founded 3, 4 months ago, three, four months ago, so a company is set up in three months. He gets a 20 million-dollar job. What are the company's references? And then when you ask some questions, then the malts don't attack you like some other state enemy, don't ask that question, the pandemic is, the government is doing good, the headquarters, everything is great, the community, don't ask anything. Well, gentlemen, we'll ask because it's not normal. Today they call the owner of the media company, he says I didn't do anything, nothing, you let me go, Minister Horvat explains the top references because the owner of the doctor, he doctored before. I don't know if he did the special, I doubt it, I don't know if Minister Horvat would let that doctor treat him. That's the same question when we talk about trust. So these are all the things that create a certain suspicion of corruption, and we need to be careful about that, especially in this time, so when Croatia was hit by the Homeland War, then there was the biggest privatisation robbery in our country's history because there was a war and no one asks anything. And now it's often said that we are in a kind of war with an invisible enemy and now this is a very fertile ground for someone to fill their pockets here and we all have to stop it together. I, too, would have joined colleagues who appealed for wealth in this crisis to be declared a war profit and for those who do so to respond in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202219	Thank you, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Đujic, everything you said about the city of Zagreb is true, and here I see the mayor today at the press conference commenting on our inquiry in the morning that why the city is late with school payments and kindergartens related to nutrition and certain money used for technical maintenance of kindergartens, why it is 2 months late, says it does not want to comment, that it is miserable and miserable. I say it is pathetic and pathetic how he manages the city of Zagreb and I am interested in how you comment on the fact that thanks to HDZ, Mayor Bandic de facto rules the city and that he is not there, would have had new elections long ago and there would be no Bandic? And how do you comment that HDZ obviously benefits from the mayor of Bandic and how can it even be that One academic such as counterpart Reiner, is in the same company with Mayor Bandic? [[Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic, please.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202221	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I believe that academic Rainer is certainly not comfortable with that kind of society, but sometimes a man can't choose society and that's how it turns out, right? Correct me if I'm wrong, but you're absolutely right, colleague Maras. And not only do they lean on each other, HDZ = Bandic, Bandic = HDZ, and I see it, so who is the president of the Zagreb City Assembly? Well, it's not from some left-wing party, HDZ, and that's Mr. Prgomet, the respectable HDZ, let's put it that way. Before him was Andrija Mikulić. So, HDZ is deep in the power of the city of Zagreb, but here and there media when a little public perception is sworn, then they pretend like we have no connection, we are out there, then and criticise Mayor Bandic, question his decisions and are the most fierce critics, give the 100 amendments to some decision, but then the vote comes, then all the amendments withdraw, the hands get up neatly and then some chips come up, but everything under HDZ control and mostly Bandic = HDZ, HDZ = Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202222	Thank you, the next debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202223	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, here I see only from the SDP and our HDZ chairman, Croatia is a corrupt country. Unfortunately, she is, and this shows us the corruption index that puts her in 60th place, on a scale corrupt and enters the category of corrupt countries. It is really embarrassing for a country that loves itself to say that it has completed a successful political and economic transition and has become a democracy, that it has become a democracy that operates by high democratic standards. But is it really so if we are 60th in the corruption index and we are classified among the corrupt countries? What does that say about ourselves? Of course, everyone can say corruption is inherent to human beings and will be as long as people and their desires for material goods are but at the same time what is expected especially from the state government, a reaction to every case of corruption. A quick and unequivocal reaction but usually expected from state officials, it itself is also not enough even though it is necessary. Why isn't it enough? Well, look, the state has its own anti-corruption apparatus that includes both the State's Attorney's Office and the police and services, etc. No one can tell us today that if they are doing a job with honor and integrity, uncorruption, they will not be able to significantly reduce corruption to the level where Croatia would no longer enter the order of corrupt countries. So our job is not only by asking all the officials, especially politicians in the country to adhere consistently to the principles of ethics and not to be corrupt, but also to strengthen the state apparatus. Not to strengthen it by the inflow of new people, but to cleanse it from those who are corrupt and for which the whole fight against corruption falls into the water. Our laws are good, our action plans are good, all the documents we produce are at a high European or global level, but implementation is not. One of the problems I want to warn you about is just so-called. dirty cops or dirty, corrupt judges, attorneys at the State's Attorney's Office, so all those who in a country of 4 million should be actively fighting corruption, unfortunately they do not or are unable to do so in the way they should, because there are weeds in their ranks. Our task is to clean up this weed and thus strengthen the capacity of the state to fight corruption because if information that someone will be arrested comes to the point of being arrested in 10 minutes before the law enforcement authorities even get to the person to arrest her, then of course it's a corrupt act, it's an act that rests obviously and evidently on the fact that an official in one of the state authorities has received money to inform criminals in time. So corruption has many forms of its own, but corruption is also a state that has mechanisms to fight it. If he himself will not remove cancer in his own ranks to enable the state services to end up fighting corruption, then it is our desire to free this country and society from corruption simply desire, only one ideal that goes deep into idealism. Corruption has entered our people so deeply that already in the economy it is considered, in part of the economy, that simply by the cost of the business that counts the price, it goes here, they say. If we want to leave such a society to our children where corruption becomes part of the business that you have to count on when you're doing business in Croatia, then we really failed the exam and we fell actually in that democratic transition that we love so much. Today I heard in the debate that I followed through television because we can't all sit here, that it equals SDP and HDZ in corrupt acts. So where is that sign of equality? By what? HDZ is the only party with a court ruling in court over corruption, the only political party. When you see millions that ended up in HDZ officials' pockets for which they are in court, there are court proceedings, there are no such cases in the SDP. Equalizing things is undermining again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202224	Thank you. The next final meeting was to be the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, i.e. representative Marin Škibola, is missing, is losing his right to speak, and will finally speak on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202225	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the end, one thank you, one message, one denial, one fact. At first, it's really depressing that on such an important subject, there's practically no one else but us from the SDP club and the chairman, colleagues of Reiner. I think it's a bad message, so at least every club could have had enough patience to stay until the end and send a message together that we really want everyone, regardless of what party they're in, put their faith in politics and trust in politicians, this is not how this message was sent. I would like to thank the members of the National Council, especially those who are not members of Parliament's representatives, so I will not have the opportunity to speak yet another report in this term of office, thanks to the members of the National Council, especially those who are not members of Parliament's representatives, so Ivica Kruhoberec, the head of the Varazdin news media, Gordan Žmuk, representative of the National Police Union who was part of the mandate and then replaced by Dario Umljenović, Krešimir Planinić, representative of the Association of Civil Society, Ivan Kalogier, representative of the Croatian Journalist Society, Smiljana Škogor Hrnčević, representative also of journalist Branko Roglic, representative of the employers of the Croatian Association of Employers, so I thank them for their contribution to the work of this national council. One denial is important since counterpart Bacic said that the entire Milanovic government was in conflict of interest which is simply not true, it can go by name, but I don't have time for it, but for the sake of the public, for the sake of history, is not the majority, therefore, of which the majority was not in conflict of interest and that message that is most important if we are already talking about the Z. Milanovic government, the only year in Croatia's history when Croatia was not in the circle of corrupt countries is 2015, so in 2015 at the end of the term of Milanovic's government, Croatia had 51 points, it was the first and only time in history that we came out of the circle of corrupt countries. Since 2015 we have a continuous decline on the scale of the corruption perception index for 13 seats and 4 points. So, we're not even within a millimeter of the EU average, 66, but we've fallen to 47, therefore, and that information is important for all those who claim that all politicians are the same. What as president of the National Council and several times in the debate is said, I would like to further highlight this time of the crown of the epidemic, the crown of the crisis, when it is really necessary to point out that we will not tolerate profits because it is equal to war profit and until the end of the work of the National Council, we will listen to the recommendations of GRECO, which points out that the COVID-19 epidemic increases the risk of corruption, especially the vulnerable health sector due to the need for emergency supply of medical material, simplifying procurement rules, crowded hospital institutions and overloaded medical staff. Given the concentration of power, the abolition of certain rights and freedoms and the injection of large sums of money into the economy in order to overcome the crisis, the risks of increased corruption must not be underestimated. Corruption practices can affect all public and private sectors and may occur in the form of bribery in services related to health, conflict of interest and lobbying in research and development of new products, commercialisation of medical products and fraud related to COVID-19, advertising of counterfeit drugs, etc. Therefore, it will be one of the priorities in the work of the National Council in the coming period. For this debate, I can say that in Croatia we must fight more strongly against corruption, that action plans of strategies are not bad, but that they do not give results in the practice that we would like to have, which is to increase the confidence of citizens in the judiciary, the institution of public authorities, that citizens understand what their role is in fighting corruption because in all polls, only 4% of citizens would report corruption if they testify to it. So, this is also a defeating data without restoring citizens' confidence in institutions, in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian government, in the judiciary, the police will not be successful in fighting corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202226	Thank you, we have a replica of the respected representative Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202227	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic, you have said nicely, I believe that the government of Mr Milanovic has not been corrupt. But what would you call a government where 14 ministers were replaced because of conflicts of interest, corruption or suspicion of conflict of interest and corruption, for which investigative authorities conduct certain procedures and reconnaissances?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202228	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202229	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. So, I've been in Parliament for a long time, since 2007, and I believed there could be no more corrupt government than I.S. Sanader. Unfortunately, on this example of which you are talking, we have seen that this degree of corruption of certain members of the Government of A. Plenkovic also increased compared to the I. Sanader which is certainly not a message that is encouraging for citizens who follow the work of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. And I forgot to say before, and that's what you mentioned, the GRECO report also further highlights the importance of curbing corruption in the ranks of the police and a whole series of guidelines on how to do so, so I hope that all of this Mr. Secretary of State will be taken into account in the development of a new Corruption Prevention Strategy for 2020-2025, which is now ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202230	Thank you very much, I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue the session on Wednesday, April 29 at 9:30, I wish you a pleasant weekend. The session was interrupted at 1551 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-24-0.u202231	The report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy for the period from 15 September 2018 to 15 July 2019. The proposer is the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, the debate is concluded and I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the corruption control strategy for the period from 15 September 2018 to 15 July 2019 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the vote 111 for, 4 abstentions, 4 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the motion. The first point is: - Final proposal of the Intervention Act in executive and bankruptcy procedures for the duration of the special circumstances, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Before I give my word to the proposal's representative, respected Drazen Bosnjakovic, the minister of justice, reports with counterpart Grbin. Here you go.
