ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26048	Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, I am opening the 5th extraordinary session of HS, as I announced yesterday. I warmly welcome you all. I called the 5th extraordinary meeting of the HS at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 220 and 221. The HS Rules of Procedure with the agenda that was sent to you on the call. First, we will discuss: 1. Proposal for a decision adopting Council Decision on the system of own resources of the European Union and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, EURATOM, 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 43, 1. Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 36, 1. A) Report on consultations on the intention to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea B) Proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. How appropriate. 225 C. 3. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the draft agenda are missing, and I would like to confirm that we have adopted the agenda of the 5th extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26050	And it's the last Mr. Miro Bulj to present the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26051	My people, one of the big problems we're going to have, and we're going to have waste management in Dalmatia. In Split-Dalmatia County one harmful project on Lečevica, CGO is already 20 years old, 2000. It's running, big money's been spent on loose directors, V.D. Directors, employees, however, absolutely nothing was done, and the money was spent. Otherwise, this harmful project that is scheduled to be on the cross where it will have a major impact on drinking water, sources in the area, instead of protecting that area, we went with that Croatia which with that bad solution and what happened? It happened that today we have a public procurement that they have recently called, the estimated works of 300 million kuna, and at the end of the day the minimum bid is 680 million kuna. And a long time ago, Ante Sanader, vice president of the assembly as mayor, promised to solve this problem of waste management, so that we are waiting for the Naples script in Split and all cities and the entire county, and we know that the Split-Dalmatia County with its islands is one of the largest tourist islands, and we have a visit to this area and tourism down there is very important, and of course also ecology, so that we have endangered tourism, our waters as drinking, drinking water as a resource that we should have put in place, but you did not support us in the past term, and in this we will insist on entering the constitutional category of drinking water protection as a basic human right because it is potential. That's our resource. There's drinking water on the stock market a few days ago. That's our potential to protect. However, in order for the county to get away from its work, it does not care about the CGO where 35 million kunas were beaten with the Minister of Threat and Environment, Ćoric, some kind of nebulous solution. That solution was to waste, municipal waste from Vrgorec 120km transport to Sinj. And now one thing, of course, that's what I stopped it won't do to threaten my river Cetina, remember those Cetinas, and the Vorgorcans will be much more expensive because 120 kilometers of highways with old trucks endanger and traffic, so we have a lot of things that, a lot of elements that are catastrophic. But in order for Minister Coric to boast that he solved the problem and closed several of those dumps, I think 17 dumps to say the EU see how we do. He didn't do anything at all. We have an example of good waste management on the island of Krk where much of it is separated and the garbage is not only, waste is not just garbage, waste is and jobs, so it is threatened down and tourism will be threatened, of course, by our ecosystem, our water and all the resources in the area. And now it comes to the mayor of Boban, Anti Sanader, of the great wisdom of running the county, that they, in this project, will have cargo stations and where the overload station in the Kukuzovce-Sinj economic zone will be, and we have a waste dump. I really expected that when I saw them, they even wrote headlines, they sent statements that this Sinjo Christmas Christmas would be 5.5 million kuna, although Sinj deserves much more, the Cetin End and the whole Dalmatian Zagora, I thought it was some kind of project to invest the businessmen here in the fast road of Sinj's merger with, with the highway where Sinj would become the square end where they would become the suburbs of Split, would have the potential of development that we have. However, instead of economic operators where 100 million kuna is invested, which is local, which is state-level, they drive us nothing less than garbage. And now, as long as it gets rid of the CGO wants us on the economic zone, on the junk, there's a loading station. This can be done in the scope of existing landfills, not in economic areas. Otherwise, it's been three years. Since being a government meeting in Split, 2 billion kuna projects, I see that free, today, according to the newspaper "Free Dalmatia" and all other media are writing numerous projects that will be provided by Croatian roads, infrastructures. You know how much 2 billion kuna projects were invested 3 years ago.? Zero, nothing, nothing invested. You invested a zero in the Split-Dalmatia County, in my Zagora, in my Cetina region. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26074	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is a lady who isn't you, first is Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26075	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I also got a little confused when I saw a colleague, but good. Here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague. There has been this for some time, or months, since our prime minister happily returned from Brussels saying that there is no less than 20 billion euros for Croatia for earthquake recovery, for recovery from the crown crisis, for green development and... species and types. The Prime Minister held onto us as if he had brought that money with him in his pocket. Okay, not exactly in the pocket, but at least in some black bag right in the middle of the HDZ. But here I am today wondering about five months after that, when this big money will actually start to come. It's been half a year, and from the preparatory steps to withdraw that money, there's no sign of a voice. All right, there have been problems in the Union over the agreement between the members, but today I am publicly asking the question, Prime Minister, the Government and its parliamentary majority, which in those six months seemed to start to arrive? And I'll give you the answer right away because this is Croatia, and in Croatia it's in HDZ and it didn't seem anything. I know that they could write 20 pages of measures that are being taken to God, as well as for the interpretation of health care, but we are still the worst in Europe. Mr Plenkovic was here in HS on 29 July this year as he briefed us on the meetings of the European Council that the national recovery plan would be presented in the Assembly by the end of the year. You colleagues and colleagues see him on the agenda? I can't see. That plan had to be made at that time to discuss and adopt in the Assembly, unless they intend to completely bypass the Parliament, and that would not surprise me. The European Commission has urged members to start delivering draft plans since mid-October. Now it's mid-December, we ask the Prime Minister to let us know if he accidentally sent the draft to his secret channels that no one knows about, to offer our attention. I am not clear at all how Mr Plenkovic and his Government intend to use the first 10% of the funds that can be used by the next year when the plan has not been made at all, and the procedure of approval by the Commission and the Council when the plan is over can take several months. I remind you of the Next Generation instrument at our disposal 9.4 billion euros of which 5.9 billion are irrevocably irrevocable or to make up for a little bit, it might be available to us, but it already seems that we haven't gone very well, otherwise the plans will be assessed by how they fit into the green development objectives with a particular emphasis on digital technologies, clean energy and energy efficiency. The same Commission that will evaluate them to Croatia recently warned because we are months behind on the Energy Recovery Strategy. We also do not know how many times I have personally warned that Croatia still has no adopted strategy... development and by digital competitiveness we are unfortunately at the bottom of Europe. So nothing was done except that in the public debate, meanwhile, the Development Strategy was sent by 2030, in itself it could be a good thing. It's a shame that our candidate for the Guinness Book is a record in the category with the most contentless general places in one text about how much it cost this time I won't talk. How are things now? We won't see anything from the money in the black bag. It wouldn't actually be weird of HDZ, it's not our first time. It would be strange to take a serious job and finally make some step for their own country, but unfortunately, as with the interpretation of health care that they have defied, the only thing they really know is that they are the worst in Europe both in the fight against the crown and in the use of European money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26076	Thank you, too. Before I said "Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas held the position of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Mr Goran Ivanovic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, perhaps with some more difficult topics, I would say on a subject too often under the radar, I would say that it is a sector that is very threatened by this crisis. Of course, it's about the cultural sector. Cultural workers and employees are certainly one of the most creative parts of Croatian society and certainly deserve attention. So let me talk in these five minutes about the measures taken by the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Culture and the media to preserve the most creative one, he would say, part of Croatia, which is our identity and our culture. As soon as this corona crisis started, the government and the ministry were aware that the sector would need much help. 48 million kunas have been provided for the crisis fund, and 35 million kunas have also been provided for the delivery of project proposals. I would say that this whole story about the protection of the cultural sector when it comes to the coronary crisis, was going on here in three or three packages that I'm going to try to explain in these five minutes. The first package of measures was adopted during the period of suspension of all activities. We remember in mid-March when Croatia was practically in lockdown and it was known that absolutely nothing could be done about it, a decision was made to postpone the implementation of the agreed public needs programmes in culture under the conditions of payment of funds for approved programmes under special circumstances. A decision has also been taken to suspend the revision of recognised rights of independent artists' status, independent artists are a very important segment of the cultural scene, for a period of 6 months, of course the measure will likely be extended. Cultural and creative industries have been included in government measures to preserve jobs where people working in this segment have also been covered by all measures that were in line with the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. The ministry also provided complementary measures with HZZO measures, which were support from 2 to 4,000 kunas to all those independent artists and other cultural artists who could not of course implement their programmes for Croatia at that time were in lockdown. The Agency for Electronic Media has implemented the disbursement of the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media for 2020 and has also decided to support part-time media activities which, due to the epidemic and disease of Covid-19, have been cancelled co-operation and have been prevented from acting on a regular basis. The second package of measures concerned the promotion and relaunch of cultural life, as well as the production and distribution of cultural content. Thus, art and culture on the line included a total amount of 35 million kuna in the total amount of grants. Through a public call to encourage entrepreneurship in cultural and creative industries for 2020. 8 million kuna is also secured. Sufficient funds have been provided for the financing of films that can immediately be recorded through the Croatian Audio Visual Centre in terms of providing the funds needed to comply with the HZJZ recommendations. There are also additional measures in the programme to provide state support for entrepreneurs in culture and creative industries, and I think that co-operation with HAMAG-BICRO to help these people through loan packages. Third package of measures during autumn 2020. 4 new support programmes to be launched by the end of the year, additional funding to support film production, public call for support and award of performance costs in the field of theatre dance and music, classical and jazz music, activities, public call for digital adaptation programmes and the creation of new cultural and educational content, and also a call for proposals for concert programmes under the project "Because it must play". This is the shortest list of what the government and the ministry have done resolutely, and I must say that here is the Minister of 27 November held one on-line conference with all associations interested in the implementation of these programmes and that it is agreed that the government will also hold in 2021. continue to work and help people who, I say again, are the most creative part of the Republic of Croatia, and these are our cultural employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26084	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Willy Matula who's going to be the Green-Left Block Club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26110	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Green-Left bloc club, I would like to make it clear that the government's decision is now, at the moment of the global pandemic crisis, covida-19, now moving towards the acquisition of a multi-purpose combat plane completely wrong. The public is aware that on December 12th on Croatian Air Force Day, the government was to inform the public of the best offer to arrive at a tender for fighter aircraft. The deadline slipped, telling us that there are again problems in managing the process of obtaining a fighter plane as it was in the case of Minister Krstic's mandate when the stunning incompetence of managing such a complex process turned out to be. The Green-Left bloc club is not opposed to obtaining a fighter plane because the process is demanding and that the current responsible persons are obviously not up to it. We simply can't help but wonder how one responsible government in the middle of the Covida-19 pandemic when we have a GDP decline of about 10%, when jobs are uncertain how strategically they decide to allocate huge funds, I still don't know exactly how much, for fighter planes. Even if there was no pandemic, it would raise the issue of priorities and the sense of investment in fighter planes in a country where too many people live below or at the poverty line with deep regional inequalities and thousands of people who emigrate. We understand perfectly that the issue of obtaining a fighter plane and an identity issue is, to some extent, the matter of the country’s pride that has recently survived the war. But for the Green-Left bloc club, the same is the question of identity and the question of pride, a vision of a country where there is no poverty, from which young people do not go with their heads regardless of where there is no expressed social and regional inequality. These must be identity priorities, pride priorities, development priorities, and when something is a priority, money needs to be invested in that as well. We hear and understand an important argument that our military air force is in a critical phase in terms of whether or not it is now being invested in a plane there is a concern that the entire branch of the defense is shut down. We're not turning our heads on that argument, but we're wondering if there are any temporary alternatives, how to bridge this situation, isn't this a time to use NATO membership more strongly to give new young generations of pilots as experienced pilots to get through partnership with some of the member states this year in a way that we fly on partner planes. Isn't that exactly the opportunity for our pilots to get better acquainted with the fighter planes we want to get, to eventually also have pilots involved in making decisions from their own flight experience, which we get planes once our country is more economically powerful, not on their knees like it is right now. I want to open up another dimension of the problem of getting the plane, it's a matter of security. Can we talk rationally in Croatia today about possible threats, security challenges or we are still burdened with the experience of war, so that security and then the defence are exclusively understood through armed forces, police and secret services. 25 years old. Since the end of the war in Croatia, we have failed to respond to the fundamental security challenges that have contributed to the fact that a large number of our citizens and fellow citizens have left Croatia, which are political corruption, lack of trust in the judiciary, creating social and economic inequality, rent economy, lack of protection, etc. etc. After all, an enemy of 120 nanometers attacked us and turned us upside down. The health system is fighting a historic battle against that nano-enemies and it is now clear that we have invested more in public health that battle would have been easier to win. If we had invested more in civil protection systems today, we would not have a politically compromised civil protection headquarters that makes political rather than scientificly based decisions. If we had invested in the civil protection system today, our fellow citizens trained through the civil protection system could work with epidemiologists to detect all contact infected, the methods from which we gave up due to the collapse of the system. That method saves lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26111	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26115	And we go right to the first point, that's: 1. Proposal for a Decision adopting a Council Decision on a system of own resources of the European Union and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, EURATOM is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Affairs. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. We have the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric with us. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26116	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives and Representatives. Here, as announced and as I have been told, I must say that I am personally pleased and glad that this point is coming to HS, so such a decision was among other things to be not only at the government level but also at HS to discuss it for several reasons. One thing is to point out, of course, the importance of such a decision and the agreement reached at European level. We've been talking about this a lot over the past few weeks and months in public, and surely that HS is then the place to talk about it in the most detailed way possible, I would say the more objective, more reasoned way of talking about it. On the other hand, I am also pleased that today a little more focus in this decision is placed on something that is generally less focused on our public debates. As a rule, we focus on what is the expenditure side of the European budget in the case of national budgets, which is the revenue side, so EU aid and funds, we are talking here today, among other things, about the revenue side of the European budget, so all of what we as Member States are paying. So I will take the opportunity to in this opening speech, and of course through the answers to the replicas and in the debate I think not because of you as much as an agent, you are very well aware of these details, but I would say also because of the Croatian public a little closer explain the whole system through numbers and through some structure we bring all of the details closer to each other. So what is important to say before us, or you are facing one of the key EU legislative acts aimed at ensuring regular EU funding during the next seven-year period. Otherwise, it cannot even start funding from this new generation EU programme without this decision itself or without its adoption. A brief retrospective historical back several months, years, so the European Commission proposed on 26 May this year a recovery plan for Europe to help Member States remove the economic and social consequences resulting from the pandemic of the kidney virus and contribute to the launch of economic recovery and resilience of the European economy. Taking into account the exceptional circumstances and consequences caused by the covid-19 crisis, a coherent and uniform approach at EU level has been proposed to prevent further negative impacts on Member States' economies, employment levels and social cohesion. On 21 July, the leaders of the Member States agreed on a recovery plan or ‘EU for the next generations’ and the Multi-annual Financial Framework for the period 2021-2027, after which it was agreed with the European Parliament on 10 November and confirmed by the Council several days ago on 14 December. The Croatian public and we are all familiar with the details together, but it is not worse and repeat that the adopted financial package is based on the strategic concept of two basic pillars. One is a recovery plan titled "EU for Next Generations" and the other is the Multiannual Financial Framework. ‘EU for the next generation’ is structured through three basic pillars. The first pillar is support to Member States for investment and reform, primarily through the recovery and resilience mechanism. The pillar also provides assistance for the cohesion recovery of European areas, so-called REACT-EU, support for green transition to a climatic neutral economy through a strengthened mechanism for a fair transition and a strengthened European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The second pillar focuses on the launch of the EU economy by encouraging private investment through a strengthened InvestmentEU programme and promoting strategic investment as an integral part of the EU Investment I third pillar is an agreement or response to lessons learned from the crisis and facing European strategic challenges through the strengthened EU Civil Protection Mechanism RESC-EU and a strengthened OBZOR-EUROP programme, which would include funding for vital research into health, resilience and green and digital transition. Otherwise the green and digital transition and these concepts are certain I'm several times going to be mentioned through my speech, and I believe through our discussions. The objective of this approach is to ensure regular EU funding during the next seven-year period, but also to ensure economic recovery from the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic, but also to strengthen resilience by generating growth and encouraging investment with the achievement of climate objectives and digitalisation objectives. The next generation of EU funds totalled 750 billion euros, of which 390 billion are grants, and 360 billion euros are loans. I will also immediately add a multi-annual financial framework of 1 000 and 74 billion euros. So, together with the multiannual financial framework for the period '21-'27. The EU has EUR 1.824.3 billion at its disposal, which is also the value of this package's financial weight. The Republic of Croatia under the multiannual financial framework for the period '21-'27. EUR 12.8 billion has been secured, while a total of EUR 24.2 billion is available under the EU instrument for the next generation, including, of course, earthquake and covid funds. I'll just be here for a little while to apostrophe. So, when we look at the structure, I will focus here on the EU of the New Generations because as far as the multiannual financial framework is concerned, the structures are well known and well known through the past financial perspective. But as far as this new one is concerned, we understand, so when we look at 750 billion Euros, we can say that approximately 390:360 between grants and loans is almost 50:50%, so mild, slightly over 50% of the non-refundable from the treasure below 50% of the loans. In the case of the Republic of Croatia, the ratio is even more favourable. Of the total of these already mentioned EUR 10.4 billion, 2/3 are in the form of grants. The maximum amount through the Recovery and Resistance Fund 6 billion, however, is EUR 735 million, the EUR 96 million Fair Transition Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, EUR 182 million. So, even when you look at those indicators, how much is the share of grants per capita, or as a percentage of GDP, the Republic of Croatia is in the first or second place. So we have a really quality envelope of course. And what we will certainly absorb together, it is now a great responsibility for all of us to be through the work that is going on, I can tell you that as far as we are concerned at the government level, so the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance is one of the key or main coordination operatives, and here present State Secretary Stipe Zupan, so at the level of all the resolutions we are working on this document that will ultimately be submitted to the European Commission as well as to all the Member States at the end of April. However, all this time, different types of consultations with European institutions are taking place, and we are, of course, communicating with other Member States, among other things, to see at which stages they are and can at this point say that Croatia is doing well, but of course the challenges ahead of all of us are, above all, that this quality envelope is being translated into the best possible way in our economy. So, as far as the instrument itself is concerned, I'd just be here apostropheing a few key areas that he's focused on. These are labour market recovery measures, such as social protection and health system measures, measures to revive the potential of sustainable growth and employment in order to strengthen cohesion among Member States and to support their transition towards the green and digital economy, measures to support companies affected by the Covid-19 crisis, in particular small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, measures to strengthen EU strategic autonomy in key supply chains, measures to support research and innovation in relation to the Covid-19 crisis, capacity building measures at EU level to increase preparedness for future crises, support EU areas with its efforts to achieve a fair transition, and help rural areas to address the consequences of the Covid-19 crisis. Of course, the instrument also provides crisis support to partner countries to restore and improve their trade and economic relations with the EU and strengthen their resilience. I have already mentioned, the instrument is financed up to EUR 750 billion, based on the powers of the Art. 5. Decisions of the Council on a system of own resources. Thus, in the next period, success in the use of EU Capital Funds will play a significant role in the recovery of all, including our economy. As regards the aforementioned esteemed representative and MPs, here I would point out exactly the key role of the entire financing process throughout the next 7-year period in this decision of the Council on the EU's own resources system for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just sent you a proposal for a decision on acceptance, which is, in fact, the subject matter and the point of our debate today. The EU's own funds system has been under discussion for many years. Otherwise, just to simplify, therefore, the EU's own funds make up the EU budget's revenue side and are designed to ensure long-term financing of EU policies, guaranteeing a reliable and sound income framework that respects the principle of balance. However, the need for significant improvements on the EU's revenue side of the budget is further highlighted in the context of the European Council's decision of July 2020. on the multiannual financial framework '21-'27, but also establishing an EU instrument for future generations. As mentioned above, the economic consequences of the covid disease crisis confirm the importance of ensuring sufficient financial capacity for the Union in the event of a negative impact on the economy. In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the Union therefore provides itself with the resources necessary to achieve its objectives and implement its policies. The power of the Commission, the European Commission to take loans or debt in international capital markets and international financial markets of EUR 750 billion exclusively for the purpose of financing measures to address the consequences of the Covid-19 crisis is closely linked to an increase in the ceiling of own funds based on this decision and ultimately to the functioning of the EU system of own resources. As far as the system itself is concerned, allow a brief review. I will be back in 1970 when the reform of that year actually put in place for the first time a system of own resources, and since then EU budget revenues have been regulated by a legal act entitled "the decision of the Council on the system of own resources". Art. 311. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU is prescribed to provide the EU with the resources necessary to achieve its objectives and implement its policies. Without prejudice to other revenues, the EU budget is fully financed from its own resources. The Council of the EU shall, acting unanimously and after consulting the European Parliament, adopt a decision governing provisions in the system of its own resources, and that decision shall enter into force only after it has been approved by all Member States in accordance with its constitutional powers. The concept of own resources, of course, is the financial resources that the EU has at its disposal. The existing system of own resources, in the context of the current multiannual financial framework, consists of three main categories. So-called the traditional own resources, mostly related to customs revenues, therefore customs duties on imports of goods and services from third countries; own funds based on value added tax and own funds based on gross national income. Here, according to the context of European terminology, gross national income is used, while we are talking about gross domestic product as a rule at home. The difference is, macroeconomics know this, whether you sum up everything that is goods and products in one country were produced and done or national sources. There is a difference as to our particular case, as well as to many other countries, differences are not so great, but just so we know purely terminology, that in this termology of the Europeans, related to this topic, gross national income is used. So, while income from traditional own resources is being poured directly into the EU budget, so from 100 kuna, let's say, or the euro imported, therefore customs duties on imported goods from third countries, at this point 75 is immediately the EU budget's revenue, 25 kuna or 25% is being maintained by Member States, since Croatian customs, German customs or any other customs duties of individual Member States have some, of course, administrative costs to implement that. Also, as regards income on the basis of value added tax and gross national income are actually national contributions that Member States make available to the EU budget. This, as far as gross national income is concerned, was originally designed as a residual item to close the entire structure, today it is 70% of the total, total income, i.e. the total structure of its own funds. This is from the 1988 reform, otherwise, the EU Commission has already proposed a revision before the crown in 2018, but in view of the crown, this revision has also experienced certain modifications, so that the final proposal that is actually here on the table is actually a revision of new sources of own resources and an additional increase in the ceilings for the financing of the recovery instrument. It is necessary, as the need for exceptional funding is, that in this way they must, among other things, be provided in the financial perspective ahead of us, as such. The power, I have already mentioned in terms of debt-taking, i.e. borrowing in international capital markets, but as regards the ceiling for own funds, which prescribes the maximum annual amount of payments by Member States in the EU budget, an increase from the current 1.2% of gross national income, to 1.4, as permanent only, and then exclusively related to the Covid pandemic, was adopted from an additional 0.6% to 2% of gross national income. I just have to make it clear here, at present 1.2% of gross national income, but you know well that Croatia, like all Member States and the entire budget is currently at de facto level of 1, so the upper limit is about 20 percent above the actual level that the Member States are paying, i.e. the total amount of the budget, and this one, among other things, the intervention in increasing the upper limit is well linked, among other things, to these circumstances, to ensure these funds. This does not necessarily mean that there will be an increase in our payments in the coming years. I will show you, or I will tell you the figures we have for the next 3 years, however, it is very important that this particular area exists, the difference between that ceiling and what the Member States are really paying, among other things, because of the EU credit rating itself, or the EU Commission. Among other things, the goal was to keep Triple A, so the highest possible credit rating possible, that these funds that are borrowed in international capital markets are achieved on the best possible terms, as we've heard in recent weeks, we've been reporting from the government level and the first tranche of that famous project and Shore programme, you've seen yourself on a five to 30-year maturity, from negative interest to 0.0 something, so very low and very favourable interest. As far as the decision itself is concerned, let me just say, the decision provides for categories of own resources and specific methods of their calculation, the ceilings of own resources, the use of funds borrowed on capital markets in the context of exceptional and temporary additional funds to deal with the consequences of the crisis, the extraordinary and temporary increase of the ceiling, already mentioned, the principle of universality, that it is used for all purposes, the transfer of surpluses if something is not spent goes into the next year and the collection of own funds and their making available to the Commission. The main elements of the new decision are the introduction of a new own non-recycled plastic asset with the implementation of the annual flat-rate reduction for 17 countries, including the Republic of Croatia. For us, this will mean about 13m euros less than we would normally pay without this decision. Reform of own funds from value added tax that will be calculated to help the average weighted rate, as well as now, retaining it, so-called. KEP-ing of 50% gross national income, Croatia is one of the 5 countries that has the KEP, with a single rate of 0.3%. The system of corrections for contributions from gross national income to Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and Germany shall be maintained. Already mentioned a sustained and temporary increase in the upper borders, already mentioned giving the Commission the mandate to owe up to 750 billion euros and retaining those 25% of the traditional own funds collected by the Member States. In one of the audits proposed by the audits before Covid, it was proposed that the percentage be reduced to 10. It remains 25% now, which is better, of course, for our budget. In any case, here, I would say, one important decision, if, in the last minute and a half, I would try to sum up all of what I have said and in some way highlight those most important points, so the Council's decision on the EU's own resources system regulates the EU financing system currently consisting of 3 main categories of income, i.e. 3 groups of own resources. Traditional own funds as the largest part, which is mostly made up of customs, value added tax, gross national income. The agreement reached on the package has led to certain reforms, primarily a new category of income based on own funds from unrecycled plastic packaging waste, which would have entered into force by the year 1.1. It is not a new tax, it is not a new imposition, but for the same amount it will reduce the contribution from each country based on gross national income payment. At the same time, however, the perspective of the coming years provides for the possibility of introducing additional digital-based revenue sources of that digital tax, the mechanism for the border adjustment of carbon emissions, the financial transaction tax and auctioning revenues under the European Emissions Trading System. A very clear time frame has been proposed when the European Commission will come up with certain proposals and I can tell you that some of these topics that have been in various council formations, including Council formations that I have personally attended, the Council of Finance has been under discussion for many years, and we can say for decades. So, in any case, that possibility as such is envisaged and it is also one of the forces of this decision itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26117	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. We have 10 replicas, the first colleague is Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President of the Government. Congratulations above all on the agreement reached on the Multi-annual Financial Framework where Croatia received 24.2 billion euros for the ten-year period to contribute to the recovery, but also to the development of the economy and of course the agriculture that is extremely important to me. Often you can hear in the public one misinformation that Croatia invests in the European budget more than it gets, so I would like to hear your exact calculation, somewhere according to my estimates on one euro invested we get more than four euros, but perhaps you know more exact figures. Also in the framework of this agreement that has been reached and the reform of the revenue side of the budget, a new category of income is being introduced by means of own resources from unrecycled plastic packaging waste, so we also heard here in the assembly that some representatives have misinformed the public and said it is a new tax that Croatian citizens will need to pay. As far as I know, it's not about the new tax, so can I get an explanation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26119	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26120	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. I will start with this last one, in the last part of my opening speech I just said it, so it's not about any new tax or any new charge, so it's statistically followed exactly this part of the non-recycled plastic waste, and it applies an equal percentage of 0.8 euros per gram to all Member States, respectively. The same amount that will be calculated including this correction for 17 member states, including Croatia, will reduce our contribution based on gross national income. So, as far as the total financial part is concerned, he's the same. Otherwise, about this first part of yours, that's what I would say very important to mention, I deliberately saved these figures for replicas to make them even clearer. This year in the budget we will pay out 4 billion kuna from the state budget to the EU budget, in recent years we have been here somewhere between 3.5 billion and 4 billion. When we sum up everything from 1.7.2013 to today, 30 billion kuna is more withdrawn than we have invested in the EU budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26121	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. You said you didn't actually have time to say in the next three years how much we're going to pay according to these new calculations, so please here's those figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26123	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So for next year, the amount of 4.4 billion, 4.5 2022 and 4.6 or 4.659 billion kuna in 2023. As far as the previous replica is concerned, as regards the framework we have for the next three years, how much we will pay in the EU budget, the financial perspective and the "EU New Generation" therefore need to be absorbed that we currently have this relationship, and when we look at about one kuna or one euro paid about up to three euros, about what is the return back in terms of absorption, now with this financial perspective, it goes on over four even close to five euros. So the capacity and potential that we have as such. What is important in the rest of the replica, as I mentioned at EU level from these totals of 4 to 4.5 or 4.7 billion kuna, is the largest part of gross national income, but this is all clearly seen in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26124	Thank you. Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26125	I thank the president for his words. Dear Minister. You said just before that in 2013-2020, we withdrew more than 30 billion kunas, forgetting that we had withdrawn from pre-accession funds before we became a member of the EU, also European funds. It is clear to me that this Multi-annual Financial Framework, by 2027, provides for this reform of the EU's revenue budget and introduces this new category of income from unrecycled plastic packaging waste, which is in line with the EU Strategy, the Green Transition Strategy and the Sustainable Economy. Although you have already answered your colleague, Petir, I would ask you once again this is very important for the citizens, to know whether this is a new imposition that ultimately taxpayers will pay or not, and this part that will compensate in terms of reducing our contribution on the basis of our gross national contribution?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26126	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26127	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Here is very clear and related to previous replicas, as I said, it is not about the new category of revenue of the budget or of the new levy or tax, primarily based on statistics on quantities of unrecycled plastic packaging waste as a national contribution from certain countries. 0.8 euros per kilogram of unrecycled plastic waste is for all countries, with some corrections or reductions in these countries, as well as for Croatia. We have already foreseen this in the budget for the following year because, as I have just answered Lalovac's inquiry or line of 4.4 billion for the next year of total 3.2 billion based on gross national income, this plastic unrecycled 121 million 760 thousand, VAT 116 million, used for the five countries mentioned 212 and this one in terms of emissions trading 280 million, therefore very clear calculations already made and included in the country's own budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26128	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26129	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister. It is important to note in terms of all this and the state budget, and also European as much as the solidarity fund that exists in the EU or the European budget, so only here is the consequences of this earthquake in Zagreb, with over €680 million being paid in August, of which an advance of €88 million was paid. So these are all very important, important moments that we have here help us to produce these consequences of elemental disasters, in fact, this solidarity is very much important for the recovery of both Croatia and other EU members.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26130	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26131	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I missed the opening part too, but I'm glad and thank you for mentioning in the replica with these two key sources, of course, the Solidarity Fund. Unfortunately, for the consequences and the consequences of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the two surrounding and two counties that have felt and the consequences of 687, when the health part, little and more than 700 million euros, is added. One part of the funds has already arrived in terms of advances, and here I can say that the rest of the funds are just coming in because, in terms of the inflow into the state register, the rest of the funds are going to happen this year, and of course we're going to spend it according to the plan and everything we've been saying. And then when we add it all together with these other figures that we talked about, we might mention once again that one euro or one kuna that we are paying into the EU budget in the next seven years. 5 EUR or 5 kuna is at our disposal, so ratio 1:5, which I think for Croatian citizens is perhaps the most important message, among other things, of this debate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26132	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26133	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Even in the HS, we often hear questions about the purpose, I would say, and the profitability of Croatia's EU membership. Since Croatia's accession to full EU membership, Croatia has been... It seems to me that according to your data, 29 billion kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since there is also a multi-annual financial framework ahead of us, given that the recovery and resilience plan, or the EU of the New Generation, is ahead of us, I am interested in whether Croatia will do so in the next 7 years. have more than 140 billion kuna available in relation to our contribution to EU funding or is it some kind of colorful lie, how do they want to present here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26134	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26135	Thank you very much, Your Honor. These are very exact and very clean data that they can't be cleaner. What I said, therefore, is an extremely high quality envelope, 1:5 per euro, EUR 5 available. On the other hand, when we look at this total balance of the past years since our formal membership, then 30 billion kuna is more than we've ever paid. When we look at the latest available data for 2019. Croatia is among the 4 and 5 countries that had the largest share as the recipient country compared to what it paid, so one of those countries whose difference between what was paid and what was withdrawn over 3% of gross national income and that is certainly a very good thing, and that is, among other things, when we look at this financial part, always needs to be apostrophe that benefits and benefits from our formal membership in the EU. Now, of course, when we're talking about covid, then we see that they're not just financial things. Let's go get the vaccine and everything. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26136	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26137	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, so often we hear here in HS that we as a government absolutely know nothing when we talk about these funds coming from the EU, especially from a club that isn't there today, I don't know maybe they're sleeping when we need to discuss this point that is very important to our future life, we hear that we're a government that doesn't know, that we haven't withdrawn funds, that we don't have programs, that it's more a fruit of happiness than knowledge, that it's not these, that these money that are now in front of us or in some perspective of the future that it's not the knowledge of this government or the Prime Minister, but that it's equally possible and happiness of some kind. Is there even a criterion for all of this that we're talking about today, whether it's really getting lucky, or if there's still some knowledge to it, behind it, there should be some work and a programme and why we as a state have to listen, I say, and these stories that we haven't paid for EU membership? When we talk about numbers all the time, you can tell us by 2023 when this, let's say, 7-year-old frame ends. What will be the benefit compared to what we will pay, some sort of indicative amount? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26138	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26139	Thank you very much. Well, here's the figures and the balance so far, and we're already talking about this perspective in advance. I would refer among other things to this part that you said if it was our active role in the envelope itself, I think it's more than evident. In recent months we've all been following each other together, at some point even I'd say maybe part of a dramatic situation, conversations, length of duration and all that went public at the head level. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic personally attended this, you know, we all know what his role was at the level of individual groups within the leaders of the member states, and, of course, by defending interests and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And these figures that I said, the total figures that we're talking at EU level about 50:50% of the grant ratio, and we have 2/3 of them. That we kept certain percentages that were important to us, national funding or co-financing, pre-financing, all of this stuff that I'm about Now say, I think they actually show that they're the fruit of all of this that we've invested in. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26140	Thank you very much. Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you said that the Republic of Croatia has an extremely high quality national envelope, which I agree with, in fact, but for the withdrawal of these funds we also need competent employees or public administration employees. How much really is the Ministry of Finance ready and how much has the funds for hiring new education workers and, in fact, for increasing their salaries that must not actually be the same as other employees because it is a more demanding job? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26142	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26143	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You said well, of course, and that is something that I personally said at the beginning, so I think we can agree that it is a very high-quality, very generous envelope, but of course, the challenge now is for all of us together to join the business and to do everything to make this preparatory part happen, and then when the stage of implementation takes place, it is possible to better translate into the Croatian economy and into Croatian society as such. All resolutions are included and with all due respect to this topic, so to all of us who work in the state and public service, this is an integral part of our work and mission. So the forecasts and pay increases are on the trail of what we are conducting dialogue with the social partners of all these years. You know for yourself that despite these difficult circumstances that they are, we have also predicted additional increases in both material and general salaries of civil and public officials, that certain, among other things, incentives and stimulants, be continued, I would say, by the direction that we have as effective and public and state administration as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26144	Thank you. Now they're going to be replicating Comrade Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26145	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the fact that we get the most in Europe from Europe, does this have anything to do with the fact that we are currently the worst in Europe? And economic and even in this Covid crisis? Because the least we have is, does that have anything to do with it? Or does this really have nothing to do with the knowledge of Prime Minister Plenkovic, as we hear from HDZ here, and please tell us, what you've alluded to, or is the most important thing to do then, that knowledge, that you've just explained that we've been paid because we've singled out the candidates of the current European government?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26146	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26147	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. So it's certain that a lot of elements affect, among other things, these figures that we're talking about so far, but also about the very perspective, in terms of our commitments and payments, that's more than an algorithm clear about this structure that I've just presented. The absorption itself depends mostly on individual Member States. As far as administrative capacities have developed, what has just been mentioned by the honourable representative, how much each country is prepared and able to withdraw funds, and of course, the purpose and intention of these funds is to make regional development more equidistant for all Member States and, of course, when we look at the overall balance that those countries that are the payer,.../incomprehensible/... net payers in the state budget, or in the EU budget, are, in general, those that are at the very top of the economic indicators. Whether we talk about Germany, France, Scandinavian countries etc., and that the net recipients of the country are, among other things, Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26148	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26149	Dear Ministers, one of the preconditions for joining the EU was to build a system to monitor traditional own funds. These were the means of entering customs and sugar, the cost of sugar, if I'm not mistaken, in 2013, so then the monitoring of the warehouse of type D, the giving of the rest of the customs duties to us which were, etc., etc. When we joined the EU, we actually entered a unique customs zone. And inside the EU, customs are no longer paid. I would ask you, if you may have information first as much as we had traditional own funds in 2013, how much we have today, and if you have an estimate if you were to calculate customs duties within Europe, how much Croatia would make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26151	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, with all due respect, but I didn't drag that far back until 2013, but as far as these last few years are concerned, I've just been taking the data relevant to the replicas. So as far as traditional own resources are concerned for this and for the next three years, they're at around 280 million kunas in terms of our contribution there. I repeat again, you've done a great job of apostrophe, and thank you for that, and you've come back in part into the past. The fact is that traditional own resources in some previous perspectives along with customs had these burdens on sugar,... is said in English, so as we already translate it, or agricultural certain fees, they were in some integral part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, it is more or less customs, I repeat, we are currently staying on this, that 25% of the sum collected remains national budgets, were proposals before Covid to drop that percentage to 10, so that it becomes a full choice of EU income. The EU budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26152	Thank you. And we're going to the last line Come on, you'll do it later, you'll do it later. [[Intruder: 280 billion, millions of kuna in the state budget.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go with my colleague Bartulic now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26153	Here's a thank you, dear Minister. I have listened carefully to the presentation and what has been said so far, I am particularly concerned about any introduction of a new tax, so I would refer to the mention of the digital tax and the proposal to work out by the end of 2022. Croatia is recognised as an attractive destination, so-called nomads, people who live and work in this service industry digital, so I'm interested in what possible implications are, and also the negative consequences for that industry, if this tax is introduced, especially for our country, given that we have many companies that are globally competitive and you expect maybe What about activities? [[Thank you. Finish up.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26154	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26155	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. Also, a good question to say among other things how and on this principle unrecycled plastics that take effect from 1.1, and each of the following, possibly new, according to a proposal to be considered in the coming years, and so on by digital taxes, this will not mean an increase but a substitution of certain sources and payments to the budget itself. Here I can say not generational, but by internship. I am one of the longer-standing ministers in the formation of the Council of Finance Ministers. Since day one, here's almost five. As I take part in this, we have every little topic, and colleagues of some experienced and older people say that before that, so we can talk about this, for a decade there are discussions, in which direction and how it will all go further, all of what you have said, certainly does not depend on Croatia alone, the EU is there, but, of course, international practice at OECD level is seen. And in short, as for nomads, you saw yourself in the proposals of the Income Tax Act and this residence. A stranger if we had arranged that part very favorably, I would have said. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26156	Thank you, Minister, for now, you're free because we're going to the board's report. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and first of all, it's SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today there is one by my side, one of the most important documents with the state budget is that this document has certain long-term implications not only for the Croatian budget but also for the Croatian economy. The very essence of this document and why I think there should be a debate is something that will certainly determine the structure of the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy in the future. And why is it good to discuss him here today? First one small criticism, but well-intentioned criticism. You're a lot of good and quality data the minister said here. I'm really surprised, I'm also defending that attitude that we should approach and that's good for Croatia, but in the explanation, this is one document worth a thousand and 800 billion, that in the explanation you have nothing, absolutely nothing of this good that you said that one day not only people listen to your record but that people can read in the document on the pages to say what positive contributions Croatia has made to membership. It's a well-intentioned criticism. It doesn't matter what it is about the decision now. This is a very important document, and I think it's good for us to discuss that for those who don't believe in these things, you have in writing what you just told us. That you have written, that it says how much we've withdrawn, how much we'll withdraw, how much it'll cost us, some estimates, some projections, some kind of story in 10 sentences of what you're literally from your mouth that you said you had written. I think it's very important and important, that for all those who are going to read this document tomorrow, they don't have to look for your page. Here, that's what I'm asking you Ministers for in the future to do things like that... Is that what I support? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally support this EU-related direction of funds and I will say why I support it, why it is good. Firstly, here we are also giving some authority to the European Commission, which has been doing for the first time so far, to be in debt on our behalf, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, it has not been in the multiannual financial framework. Why? It's caused by a crisis. Covid and those thousands of billions, thousands and 74 billion long-term budgets, which are EUR 153 billion a year, have come, Europe said they must find new instruments to act in the crisis if the crisis has coincided with the new multiannual financial framework. And by this document, this document gives the European Commission the authority to do for the first time in its history something he did not have the authority to do, and this is a debt on the financial market of EUR 750 billion in order to solve the crisis problem. That's exactly what it says. That's what the commission didn't do before, it didn't do it. So there were funds that were... This is additionally what the minister said has Triple A rating and the commission is actually setting up a new segment of fiscal discipline in the future, which is actually borrowing on the financial market to solve the crisis. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the experience, and actually the European Commission's response to the 2008 crisis, and then it wasn't, and different countries were solving their problems differently, we had different bond prices on the financial market, riots in Greece, Spain, Portugal, in other countries. Today which is a crisis, not to say that it's as heavy as the 2008 crisis, you see a peaceful financial market. See also calmly, the price of bonds and the Republic of Croatia. There is no impact on the bond market of any member state. And so the European Commission found an instrument in battle, found a common struggle to stabilise the market. And that's why we're always saying it's good, and that's why I support it, that it's a good thing that we found that the commission found, supranational, that it's found resolution and some national issues, which is not easy. It is not easy to find a solution to the national issue and public debt of Portugal and the public debt of Greece and the public debt of Italy, and finally our bonds, etc. and they found the instrument and that's where we give them the authority to do it here, and it's positive for Croatia and it's positive for Europe, and that's why it's good. The second thing, ultimately, is why it is good, so first of all, firstly, is that we have found instruments to solve problems in crisis, which has not been in history and therefore should be supported by the European Commission, that is my personal position, that is my personal position, and I think that's good. The second thing, here we are talking about is this multi-annual financial framework of 74 billion, which is very similar to that of the previous one where it actually amounted to a thousand and 33 billion, which is actually a certain part of the contribution actually given from the gross national income, which the minister himself said 70%, but what this document really says is an additional specification of this document except for the powers that we give to the European Commission to be in charge is that it changes the structure of the source of the budget, or in the first case of the multiannual financial framework. So far, it has been based on gross national income, but in the future, as mentioned here, we will have a fine of taxes that will replace or reduce our contribution to the gross national income that we are now paying and that is located here somewhere at 1% of GDP level, such as the minister around 3.7 billion, he will reduce it. And here we are talking about digital taxes, recycled packaging taxes, financial transactions for carbon dioxide, etc. means the European Commission is changing the structure of its long-term budget revenue, it is changing. Why? Because it also encourages the reduction of carbon dioxide in its policies through the budgets that we use, and it encourages Europe to be competitive at global level, and on the other hand it encourages investment. In fact, these are all EU policies over the next seven years. And that's why it's changing with this document and the structure of budget income, and we have an instrument and a crisis. What is important to say publicly here is that if Croatia were not an EU member today it would be very difficult to get out of this crisis, we must all be aware that we are not a strong, integrated member of the Commission. Why? On the other hand, when crises occur, if we are not part of the best team, and the EU is as much of a problem as the best team in the world, as much as people think about it or don't think about it. Look, what's going on in America, we're not going to do China no matter what their economic growth is, we're not going to comment on it, but it's the best team. And it's not easy for 27 ministers to make some common decisions because you have different opinions and no matter how you criticized it, it's still the champion's league, it's the champion's league no matter what anyone thinks about it. And because we're talking about how Croatia would act if we weren't a member, we'd only have one negotiator in this crisis, and we saw that tourism revenues fell, that the economy's revenues fell to 30 billion kuna in a year, we would be the only negotiator to solve the minuses in the IMF budget, the only one, as exists in those non-integrated countries, the only one. And when you negotiate only with the only one who can lend you the funds then there must be a cut in public sector wages, a cut in pensions, a drop in living standards. Croatia has avoided this, Croatia has avoided integration and further direction that we must enter these integrations and use instruments on financial markets, and that is one of the instruments is this and the task. And later, through my individual discussion and importance and use of eu funds and use Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The SDP club will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26158	Well, we figured it out from exposure. We are now going to the HDZ Advocacy Club, a respected colleague of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26159	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is what my colleague Lalovac said will, of course, support this proposal for a decision to adopt a Council Decision on a system of EU own resources and to leave the EU's 2014/335 decision or EURATOM beyond the force of Decision 2014/335. We are aware that the EU itself and the functioning of the EU budget is an article. 311 stipulates that the EU provides the resources needed to achieve the objectives and implement policies and how they are collected or how the EU budget and its revenue sides are created. However, it is crucial that the two reasons that change the very structure of income, and as you know in the previous period, there has been a change in the UK's exit from the EU, making sure that income will be compensated because the UK was a large net payer. Unfortunately, another key thing has also happened, and this is the pandemic of the coronary virus, which has also caused extremely big problems throughout the world economically and in the EU. When we talk about the EU budget, then, as you know, there are three types and three categories of own resources revenue. The first group is its own means of customs, the second is income from value added tax, and the third group makes revenue from own resources based on gross national income and it serves as a residual category in the system of own resources and has eventually become the main source of income in the EU budget. However, with this agreement and these changes, this multi-annual financial framework package of 2021-2027 introduced new income categories based on own funds from unrecycled plastic packaging waste. What is to say and repeat again that this is not a new tax or tax directly paid by taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia but rather a new category of EU budget revenue, based on statistics on the quantities of unrecycled plastic packaging waste. As you know, given the unequal level of capacity development for recycling across Member States to this new category of income, an annual flat-rate reduction in national contribution will be applied, thus reducing the share of national contribution to a number of EU member states, and thus to the Republic of Croatia, this will be a reduction of 13m euros. It is important to say that, from the next seven years, the possibility of introducing additional digital-based revenue sources, the mechanism for the border adjustment of carbon emissions and taxes on financial transactions and auctioning revenues under the European Emissions Trading System is also envisaged. It is important to say that in this system and when you look at the multiannual financial framework, then the Republic of Croatia should have the right to 12.8 billion euros, almost 3 billion more than in the previous financial framework, with almost 10 billion and 9.4 billion euros, respectively. New generations. So with all these other additional funds, that's over 24.2 billion euros. Once again, it would stress the importance of our membership in the EU, where and through the Solidarity Fund in these most difficult moments that lived and survived Zagreb and two other counties caused by the earthquake, how important this particular solidarity is, where we achieved more than 88.9m euros from the advances in August, and here is what the minister of the new tranche coming these days. So these are all very important elements that need to be pointed out that we are not alone at such moments, but are just a membership, and this community provides us with normal functioning and normal life. It should be noted that, through this fund, or through the New Generation funds, which is therefore foreseen by the European Commission's borrowing on the 750 billion-euro financial market, of which 360 billion is secured through the use and lending, and over 390 grants, which means that each EU Member State will have 50... in fact, the possibility of using these funds either through favourable loans or grants. What is still to be said that our membership is precisely in this association and how new opportunities are created right through the pandemic created that has caused long-term consequences for all countries, it is in fact possible that by withdrawing these funds we can also enable the transformation of our economy and create a much more quality and sustainable economy that will not depend on only one branch, branch of the economy. It is very important through this decision, so it is very important that it is also discussed in the Parliament, that we see in this way what are advantages and that the public see what are the advantages of this very association, which is what the Minister has said, and also through the replicas it has been said several times that the payments we made as a state has been paid to the European budget 25.7 billion since 2013-2020, and that the funds from the EU budget are more than 55.9 billion kuna, which makes the difference more than 30 billion, so a positive difference in our benefit over 30 billion kuna. So that's something that's very important to repeat and say, of course we all have to take care of exactly that we have as high-quality teams as possible, to make the most quality withdrawal program, and in that way, in the shortest time, we make the best and quality effects. Surely there is a challenge in this way, but I believe that we are very responsible, that we will make quality and necessary reforms to enable the development of our economy and what is very important is that when we look back that none of our employees and the man who worked in the previous period when he looks around him after he passes this pandemic says that I have kept the job, not lost his job, which is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26160	Thank you, too. Now we'll clean up the pay phone, and after that, they'll speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected colleague Bartulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26161	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we do have an important topic on the agenda, and I am little surprised that other clubs lack the will and interest to talk about this topic that has far-reaching consequences for Croatia. I will remind at the beginning that it is about how the European budget is financed and what we are in debt will be returned by the end of 2058, so young people who may be watching us, I hope there are, and those who are just entering the labour market will actually participate in the return of the debt that is now to be taken over in the conduct of these policies. So there are far-reaching consequences, and it's very important that we pay attention to this point. I'll talk about what's not controversial, later on I might look back on what's disputed in me, but what's not disputed is that the coronary crisis has caused great damage economically and that something needs to be done. Unfortunately, we are particularly vulnerable here for known reasons, what I often say, years and years of inaction, not implementing structural reforms, and therefore Croatia is vulnerable to perhaps some other countries. However, it is not disputed that we have certain benefits from this proposal now presented to us, we have certain benefits. The EU credit rating is much better than our credit rating, so a more favourable community is in debt than Croatia itself could. It's undeniable. It is also undeniable that the ratio is quite favourable to us, but it should also underline why it is so. It is quite complex as this calculation is achieved, but national GDP is an important factor and we do not stand very well, unfortunately. So we are still at the bottom of the Member States, we have a chance to change it now, I wish in the next budget the ratio was something different, that to this extent we don't depend so much on these funds, but now the situation is what it is. When compared to other countries, he would like to put into context, so what is really at our disposal. This figure is known to all of the EUR 24 billion. However, Slovakia, for example. which I think is a comparable country, there are around EUR 33 billion available for this next period, which means quite more than we do, and this should be added that Slovakia today has a GDP per capita of EUR 5,000 higher than we do. So back about 15 years we were about the same level, something is, Slovakia was richer, but in the last 15 years. It has changed so much that today, at an annual level, 20 billion euro is being created more in Slovakia than in our country. Nevertheless, they have EUR 9 billion more at their disposal than we do. So, when you look at it in a broader context, you would say, such a great reason for celebrating to say that Croatia finally got what it got when it was looked at in relation to others is nothing special. However, what I will say in the second part and what I see as controversial in all of this, not so much that Europe has its needs, we need to finance certain policies, we have shared responsibility in this, Croatia is aware of this and mature and this knowledge of us that here we are part of a wider community, a form that actually represents a particular policy and strength at global level. It's undeniable. However, what is controversial is that, and if we were to withdraw all the funds that will be available to us, so until the last EUR, that makes about 6% to 7% of total GDP at the annual level, about 6% to 7%, so I'm more interested in how we stand with the rest, so with these 94% of what is created and spent in Croatia? And here I see great problems, I see great problems and the price and the iniquities I mentioned. So structural reforms have not been implemented, the share of the total state, so public spending remains too high, very high and our economic growth is even under normal circumstances quite anemic compared to others. That's where I'm going to name Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and others. So, under normal circumstances, we grow slower than others, and now we have a state of emergency where we expect GDP to fall is actually already by these indicators, a 10% drop in GDP, that's worrying. And public spending is growing regardless of whether we have normal circumstances, exceptional, public consumption is growing regardless of what number of Croatians has been falling for years, in decline, the state is increasingly spending as an insatiable octopus. And here we see great problems in which these funds will be spent. An example of infrastructure, a platoon in a Slavonian town. Infrastructure as such is good and should certainly invest in our infrastructure from railways to highways. However, some cases show that we are working water lines, and over 2/3 of the houses are empty, so people have already left these places. We do water lines for places that are mostly half empty or almost empty. So that EU membership does not in itself mean that our people will prosper, we must first edit our own backyard, so to speak, our own backyard to really take advantage of these possibilities and we are doing it too little and the public administration is slowly adapting for this new situation, too slowly. It is still huge, too expensive, so I continue to argue that Croatia cannot afford this structure that it has and therefore there is no absorption of the funds in the best way. And here I will appeal to you ministers that in these measures and plans to focus on the real sector in particular, that the funds that we have at our disposal focus to the needs of the real sector as much as possible because we can expect recovery, hopefully even before economic growth, after a 10% drop, we cannot wait again for 7 or 8 years. like after last crisis to get out of this severe recession. We just can't afford it one more time. We'll hardly ever recover if I say it lasts 7 to 8 years. So it's undeniable that we have options, but it's very controversial to what extent we're really going to be able to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26162	Thank you, too. We are now going to the 4th debate of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26163	The people of my next year will be paying more than a billion kuna a year in membership fees than ever before. It's the taste of the whole story. Otherwise, in Croatia, in the 7-year period, EUR 24 billion will come through all funds and social funds and everything we have mentioned. However, here is the minister, so I would say that as far as GDP is concerned, more will be paid by those who have left because of bad policies, more than 6% of GDP, not funny ministers, 6% of GDP is paid annually by our people who went outside and are paying that money. It's according to the CNB report so it's not sucked out of your finger, and it's far more than that, when people come here, they give money to their families without a clue. So how social, how demographically broken the Republic of Croatia is that 6% of our GDP is from our people evicted abroad and that's why we have a population decline. So these funds we have, we are at the beginning of this period in the previous 2014-2020 period following the withdrawal of funds from the EU, are the last. After withdrawing funds from the EU, we are the last. It means we haven't taken advantage of that possibility, either. When we talk about the very positive effects of the EU, we certainly need to work on it. We are within the EU, but the Croatian state did not do it well because they would not have 2/3 of Croatia empty. I repeat, 2/3 of Croatia's empty, 6% of GDP we have from our people who have evicted solely because of the bad policies and repeat this tribune, constantly repeat. We have many, here are the many benefits that we could have had here, but we and what we were trying to use when we call on the EU, we have shown our energy as a national strategic resource this did not have our citizens benefit from it. As far as wind and wind power stations are concerned, our citizens pay a billion and a half kuna worth more electricity per year, electricity electric because of wind power plants, a billion and a half kuna. And believe me, that money isn't reinvested in the Republic of Croatia, it's getting out. We have 4 billion kuna a year, if not more than fees and fees from banks, 4 billion kuna, not interest but 500 commissions and fees and that money is drawn from the pockets of our citizens, our entrepreneurs, and that is the profit of the banks that sisterly here, this bank certainly does not invest in the Republic because to invest that money in the Republic of Croatia development would be far greater. We have to have fun with these questions. We also have a problem with teleopers. Why do teleopers in the Republic of Croatia have the highest profit? 42%, while in Germany this same teleoperer has 20% profit. The biggest margin and profit of teleopers is in the Republic of Croatia, and they're not some good service. And not only that, in the crown crisis in the 5th month, the government's decision seems to me in the 5th month, don't take me, but the decision made is 50% reduced fees for, frequency fees. That's hundreds of millions of kunas, not cheaper phones, bills, no. And that money is not invested in the Republic of Croatia. Germany has now charged EUR 21 billion for the introduction of the 5G network, and without it, no kuna, without investigating health risks, no Croatian teleoper triba. We must make sure that both banks and teleoperators and energy behave in the Republic of Croatia as they behave in their countries, so these EU funds that we are paying through our terms of 4.6 billion, you said next year, and 4.5 in that three-year period. So we're just gonna have some kind of profit. This way and with this money as much money as money is milked from Croatia to not reinvest in the Republic of Croatia, it is huge, huge money in all matters. It appeared a few days ago on stock exchanges that we have potentials. There's water on the stock exchanges, drinking water on the stock exchanges like oil. How do we treat this resource of ours that would be far more than what the EU funds give us when we pay the membership fee? So we're the ones who have to protect drinking water as our resource, like other countries that have oil. Drinking water is a resource, energy is a resource, it's all our resource. Our forests, our agricultural land, our waste is the resource of cattle farming. We must mean ecologically, economically preserve our republic, our country. And these are the resources that we have to guard, and not act as an example, here's what I'm glad to discuss tomorrow about our IGP, where in 2013, during the SDP government, we were warned by the European, not warned, the European Commission, by its report. A study was carried out, the European Commission did a study sent by EU members where Croatia was said to receive annually and lose if it did not declare the IGP on the Adriatic between EUR 160 million and EUR 260 million. It's huge money, it's up to 2 billion kuna a year. So we have resources and potentials that regardless of the funds that are 6% of GDP, 6% of GDP% of these funds, if we make the most of them we won't be able to achieve this to protect these of ours. to use our potentials and resources. Because if annually 6% of our GDP is from our evicted people who have left Dalmatia, my Zagora, like, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, if it's 6% of GDP, if it's 20 billion kuna a year, it's far more, only in that item without banks and energy, without declaring IGP, where it says it's the same, it's not the same, and I'll be proud when we say it, it'd be better if we were nice, it'd be better, we didn't, it's no big deal, tomorrow we're going to vote together and continue to fight to protect that resource within the Adriatic, protect our fisherman, protect our flora and fauna, to build our aquaculture in that area. We have potentials. Our tourism was primary to us, but tourism is to be of extra value to us in my Sinjsko field to be irrigated and that we produce and sell domestic products, to be self-sufficient. We, when I was talking about self-sufficient, I gave the laws, they're in the process, I don't even list them who are in the last term, to protect our domestic production. But no, you and now you want here the law was in a public debate, to limit the use of domestic seed in agriculture and repromation, domestic seed instead of protecting it. Why should we run for Monsanton, for glyphosate-treated cultures, dangerous to health while other countries say it is harmful, and the EU has discussed it as well. There is an even stronger Croatian tribal and our Europarliamentaries, louder, clearer. So we have potential in agriculture because we import EUR 3 billion of agricultural, food products, and 800,000 hectares of agricultural land are untreated, and from a mile and a half hectares, when we talk about EU funds, of a million and a half hectares of agricultural land, only 7,000 hectares are irrigated. And that's what we're tribbing government representatives and ministers to build our future on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26164	I thank my colleague Bull. Now we're gonna take a break, considering we've exhausted the clubs. We'll continue at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. We've got 12 more registered individuals and two clubs finally. The first will be my colleague Bacic's turn after the break. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:16 A.M.]] Let's go with the individual debates, first up is a colleague of Ante Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26166	I thank the esteemed president of HS. The Honorable Minister with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. I agree with the discussions before, some colleagues have pointed out that this decision is a very important mechanism and it is important to accept the Council's decision on its own funding and a very important topic that we are discussing today. We see that there is not so much interest, but often in free speeches but also in some other laws we often mention only funding from eu funds, but also on the position of the Republic of Croatia on this financial plan, so I am a little surprised by the lack of interest in the proposal for this decision. We know that the Council of the EU mentioned what the Minister himself mentioned to us in December 2020. make a decision regarding the EU's own resources system in order to ensure the financial period and the annual budget of the EU itself. And in that decision, as we have seen, the following categories and methods of their calculation, it is important for us to also make that decision regarding the upper limit of funding itself that we have discussed a lot here that concerns both the GDP of the Republic of Croatia and how much we will be paying in the Union itself. As regards the Union’s own funds, 98% of the Union’s budget is revenue or sources of funding spent on political priorities of Europe, are paid to 27 Member States and are divided into three categories of income, mainly customs, value added tax and gross national income itself. This topic is also important for us to open up and discuss new funding because we are entering new seven-year EU funding. Here is also recently a meeting of the European Council itself, where a deal was finally reached between the Member States, and that is the envelope that we have been waiting for the 24.2 billion euros that we have often mentioned here in the Assembly, and that is how much the Republic of Croatia is paying in the EU budget itself and how we stand by the withdrawal of these funds. I recently think at the government's meeting a few days ago, the Minister of Regional Development himself and the eu funds made the figures clear since 2014-2020. Croatia has paid €24.9 billion in the EU budget, and we have withdrawn it. We are told from the EU budget itself 53 billion kuna so that we cannot only mention with satisfaction that we are in a plus 29 billion kuna, which I think our citizens, municipalities and cities feel this and on the ground, we should not only mention from the construction of a number of infrastructure projects among which the icon symbol is the Pelješki bridge, but I also think that there is not one end to any of the municipalities and the city that has no board financed from EU funds, so that we can very much feel in various sectors of business, but here also in our own skin how much it means to us to enter the EU and how much funding alone means to us. To enter a difficult seven-year period is true, we see how much the EU will repay itself, but we must be satisfied that no institution at the world level has the ability to raise so many loans that here, when we look at only the EU Next Generation recovery instrument, will be 750 billion, of which the members will go to 390 billion, 360 in favourable loans. The next period in this first budget of a multi-annual salary of seven years is highly challenging. I think we must now put the whole focus now on government, on our municipalities and cities, on our institutions there is an interesting period where we must be very fast and efficient because these 24.2 billion kunas should be implemented as soon as possible in the projects that we will prepare for recovery and for our economy, not kuna, but euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26167	Thank you. Stay here because there are several replicas. He's a colleague of Bačić's or Branko's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26168	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Bacic's. You said how important this is, a topic that will significantly determine Croatia's development over the next 10 years. On behalf of the SDP club, counterpart Lalovac said this was one of the most important topics that the Assembly will discuss in the first place. So as important as this topic is for the opposition, best says the picture of this assembly, there is no one from the Homeland Movement, there is no one from the Most, there is no one from the Sovereign Club, there is no one from the Club We can, there is no one from the Party with Name and Surname and the Smart and Center I don't know what they are called, there is no one from the IDS, and tomorrow they will say that EU membership is harmful to Croatia, that Croatia does not have its full sovereignty by entering the EU, and with today and by accepting this decision we will have 140 billion kunas at our disposal for the next five years more than we will pay as a member of the EU in the common budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26169	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26170	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Bacic, for this intervention. I absolutely agree with you, several clubs have mentioned the importance of this topic, this is a topic that will follow us minimally now for the next decade when we look at this multi-annual financial framework. I'm also surprised there aren't any colleagues from certain clubs, so here's what you specifically mentioned is IDS one of the biggest investments in culture is just going to Istria not to mention all the investments in our hospital centres, infrastructure, Istrian Ipslon and all that. I'm sorry, personally, that some colleagues didn't get involved in the debate. I think that, here we have a lot of mayors and mayors from our local self-government, each of them can set their own example and it's important to get involved because in the last financial envelope we've made small mistakes where some infrastructure projects we couldn't finance, like, at one point and rebuild and kindergarten and everything else, it's important that all these factors get involved and send A clear message about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26171	Dear colleague Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26172	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Bačić, you spoke about the importance of these investments that are really quite high, 24.2 billion euros for the future 7-year period is the money that should be used wisely, which means that we should very wisely approach the programming of these funds based on previous experiences because we have seen that there has been a lot of empty walking. Of course, it is both the result and the inexperience because we have become only a Member State, so perhaps those people who worked on programming were not well aware of the needs on the ground. That's why this experience should be a lesson to us so that that mistake doesn't happen again. In cooperation with municipalities, cities, counties, interested and professional public, the best possible projects are selected to get the money right and give added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26173	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26174	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, colleague Petyr. We are a young member of the EU, we know all the problems we encountered when we took advantage of this past financial envelope, we know how much it cost us and what it cost us not to be able to actively participate in the preparation of the previous EU budgets. We have now taken a very active approach, we see only by the activities and the prime minister, but here is the finance minister, who mentioned meetings at EU level. Now we're at an excellent opportunity, we just have one little change, unlike maybe the last financial framework, now we may have a little short time, i.e.. We need to be much faster and more operational, so it is important now that all stakeholders are involved in agreeing on better operational programmes and using as much resources as possible over the shortest period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26175	Now it's time for my colleague Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26176	Thank you very much, President, dear colleague Bacic. It is not more difficult that we do not benefit from the EU and membership, and with yesterday's date Croatia means more than 29 billion kuna in terms of what it has paid to the common EU budget, and this is not yet included in what we will be able to withdraw from the old European budget for the next 3 years, and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia completes the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of Croatia, which is just a prerequisite for the use of the record European funds available from the new financial perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26177	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26178	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, colleague Baricevic. The numbers are clear here. I repeat, some problems in past envelopes and in past funds we've had in exploitation, which we've had in the last cycle, in the last term of government corrected. We hear here from some clubs, I think that it often tends to be more difficult for the current one than the sovereigns is how much we are paying in the EU budget, how much we have drawn out and where we are at the level of the withdrawal of the EU funds itself. I think we can be very happy right now. We know how much we pay, we know that 29 billion kuna in plus, it didn't come from itself, what's waiting for us, 24.2 billion euros, it's highly negotiated by government and prime minister's efforts, so any thesis on our non-exploitation of EU membership falls into the water simply by these figures, therefore there are no colleagues presently in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26179	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26180	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here we are, attending a debate that should have caused obviously a slightly greater interest on the side of the opposition, but we have come to the rules, in numbers that are difficult to communicate with and of course there are no interested ones, we are not talking about corruption or affairs, etc., because it is quite wide enough then and everyone can do so. And now it's a question or doubts that stay here all the time in the assembly, so. We hear it all the time, especially from the Sovereign Club, they're probably still asleep, that those numbers we say are fake. So we haven't contracted over 100% of all the funds, over the past seven years, that we haven't inherited 6%, as our SDP colleagues have told us, that we haven't achieved any surplus compared to what we've paid out of nearly 30 billion, etc., and now the question is being raised. Do those numbers we're talking about really have a background and these kind of documents solve what's going to happen in the next 7 or 10 years ahead of us? Or we must attend daily debates in which everyone is allowed to say everything he thinks, no matter what It also says what's coming true. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26181	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26182	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, colleague Boric, for this intervention. Unlike what you mentioned from some clubs, some associations and their way of funding and their hidden budgets, unlike that and the EU budget, but also the Republic of Croatia's budget, but also Eurostat sites, are all available, transparency is one of the essential features and EU funds, we know how much attention it is to control implementation from the only specific projects. Yesterday we had a very important law and a very important regulation in front of us regarding the delegated European prosecutors, today we have this decision before us which de facto, which we depend on on for funding and our own EU funds, all of which will follow us in the next decade. In particular, the EU's mandate is 7 years, and this is the EU's multiannual financial plan of 7 years, and the assembly is empty, so much for the importance of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26183	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Bacic. We're going to another individual debate. Dear colleague called Brumnic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26184	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What to say about today talking about a document that, realistically in the next few years, weighs more than EUR 1,000 billion, not 10, not 100, but 1,000. That anyone was 5 years ago. said in Croatia that anyone in HS would mention or speak, let alone vote on a document that weighs more than EUR 1,000 billion, none of us would believe it. I must admit that I am glad that we are discussing this today, that I am glad that we are EU members, that I am glad that the EU is going in the direction it is going. And as I said in one of my previous discussions, we will only find out what this crisis has brought, or how much this crisis has accelerated both the development of the EU economy and the development of the EU, when I said here that we are not aware of the fact that we have raised the euro bond or that after 15, 20 years. The debates in Europe about how Europe can be in charge ourselves have been charged with the crisis of EUR 750 billion. It's what we're in, it's a moment where I think any of us can find it hard to see what it's all about in the future. By creating a common system of Europe, I, too, know how to say it, by saying "the creation of the United States of Europe", we have become much stronger, much more capable of answering because others are watching over us and we are guarding them. And that's where the common goals are set. Europe has decided to set some common objectives such as the green economy, the development of digital technologies, the adoption of a much larger European budget. But what's being asked, I've said it two or three times so far in my discussions, is how much we're willing to answer that. The fact that someone gives us a very fast car if we haven't passed the driver's license is no use. What someone gives us is a high-quality computer or a printer if we can't program what's good for us. So also this, someone opened the door for us, someone opened the possibility for us, the fact that we got, we didn't get the most in Europe, we're others in Europe by the means we got, actually talking about how much we needed these funds to develop. This means that we are far too low on what we would, at least I would like, I would be much happier if, if we were to invest more in the European Fund than we would withdraw from it because it would mean that we are better, more capable, more quality than these others and that we are able to pay more in the fund and less to withdraw because we need less. So the question of this document isn't really a question of whether it should be brought. The question of this document is, and it's not even a question that I once said to the Minister of Finance because it only records but it's a question for the government, does the government know what to do, how to do it, so that, with the withdrawal of funds in the future, this country would be much better, much better and much, a man would say, more betraying to our citizens. We talked about housing policies yesterday, and that's one of the reasons why European funds are welcome to us. Here I thank you, and I would like to answer, but there are no colleagues of Bačić here now who mentioned that one part of the people are not in the assembly, today there are more than enough committees that more than half of the people are on board, so I think it's incorrect for the ruling party to organise committees, and then call people who aren't in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26185	Otherwise, I don't comment on this response, but those on the board could find their replacements, because it costs 41 people here in the assembly, so it's certainly not exactly 110 people on boards, but it doesn't matter. Let's not do that now. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26186	You hurt Rules of Procedure 238, because you didn't want to warn a colleague of Bačić because MOST's representatives are here, now 4.2 in the rooms, 2 here. And he mentioned MOST, you didn't think to fly in like you used to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26187	Buddy Bulj, just a little buddy Bulj. You are among those who call forever when there is no one, and I do not warn you. So, nothing unusual happened...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26188	And those for the budget weren't here for two days at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26189	Well, that's what you've been talking about for hours, and I haven't given you any notice, so why should I give it now for an intervention?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26190	Two days, two days weren't... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26191	You've been talking for hours and calling the MPs when they're gone. And now once there's been criticism from the HDZ ranks, and right now I should be warning them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26192	And you call when we're here, we're when, but Buddy Bacic calls, but a colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26193	No, I'm not giving it to you, I'm not giving it to them either, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26194	Oh, my God. A colleague named Bacic calls when, when we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26195	We can't, we can't, when we're outside the cameras talking to "you," but here in the assembly we're on "you". Let's move on, now it's time for your esteemed colleague, Peric, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26196	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I will once again highlight the importance and importance of this decision, which we are making, but also the importance of the European budget and our share in it. It's been said here more than once that we're bad at retreating, that we don't need those funds maybe or, or we're not good enough to pull them out. However, when you look at only the reports you have and publicly available, then I would like to see that these facts and concrete facts have both the public and everyone else's knowledge, and then when we look at that previous envelope from 2014 to 2020, we found 9% of European funds contracted, and now it's already over 102%, then it's very important to mention how much effort and work is made so that these funds can be withdrawn. We must also note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted 2 packages of measures to help the economy resulting from an epidemic of coronary viruses, including measures by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, and it is also important to say that it is now possible to extend the duration of EU projects by 3 months without additional administration. So everything that was agreed on in the deadlines could be realized in three months without any additional administration, so 90 days. Also, a redistribution has been made within the operational programmes of about 400m euros to tackle the consequences of the coronary virus. 300 million kunas have been provided to health care for protective equipment. Over 750 million kuna for Covid loans. Additional 114 million kuna for ESIF microcredits. So, you can see and you can see that the administration that works, which in this way clearly recognizes needs, current needs, and harmonizes all these measures and possibilities to help the economy and mitigate all the consequences resulting from the coronaryvirus. So when we talk about all of this, then it is important to say just how much this envelope, here is the previous one, which redistributed these additional 400m euros, has allowed for the purchase of quality medical equipment, to secure liquidity for the economy, for loans and financial instruments and to retain jobs through various measures that HZZ has implemented. Therefore, here is another proof that this membership, ours, in this association, is very helpful to improve and ensure the survival and jobs, but also to develop their own economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26197	Thank you. .../incomprehensible/... no, no, late. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boric. When was the replica, after all? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There'll be more time, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26198	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers with an associate. A proposal for a decision to adopt a Council Decision on a system of own resources for the EU, I consider an important, important document to be held in this House. We see how it goes today, obviously there's no pleasure, when we talk about opposition, especially from one club that's always the loudest on this subject, and I'm trying to get them into the assembly this morning, but they won't. Why? Because they are able to confuse, i.e. to speak lies to Croatian citizens, and when we need to talk about documents, about rules, about the figures that follow these rules, then we will not enter the assembly. That is why it is important for these citizens, our citizens, who are watching this, to understand what we are talking about and why we are talking about it because it is obviously about documents that define us in the coming seven and over years. This decision has already been adopted as a system of own resources, and we as a member of the EU, regardless of our discussions here, must, I mean clearly and openly say that we benefit from EU entry and we have them. And all those who say it was the wrong move, are politicians and women trust the people, have to explain why it was the wrong move, why it was not good and what figures then stand and what moves they would have made if we weren't in the EU. Today, as in 2013 or to compare ourselves to the times that were before that 2013, when we joined the EU. So far as we're talking about multi-annual financial frameworks, we need to know that they started, and why I'm going to say that, to compare a little bit. ... already started several years of financial frameworks before we were independent of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we were in Yugoslavia, 988-92. was the first multi-annual financial framework. We weren't anywhere, we were like a country. The second since '93-99, we remember, a time of war, of liberation, of restoration, of attachments, i.e. parts of Eastern Slavonia and only in '99, I say we could say that the state is the way we wanted it to be and that we are not still involved in any process. After that, the third of 2000-2006, we started to think about integrations, i.e. that the EU needs to be entered and we are missing this multi-annual financial framework. And since 2007-2013, we have welcomed 2013 by entering the EU. Before us, so many have used benefits from such frameworks while we have fought for being a state and that one day we want to be in that and such an EU. In the 5th multiannual financial framework, which has lasted since 2014-2020, we have had 10 billion euros at our disposal, and thus we fight as we know and can in the past 7 years. There was a time when I was here in opposition and I was angry that we were leaving in 2013 and that in 2015 we were finally on some 6% of the contracted funds. Before that, we had instruments and pre-accession funds to learn, etc. And we weren't happy about it. But let's say today when we've agreed on all 100% of what's at our disposal and even more so we can pull everything out by 2023 it's not good to say that we didn't do a good job because I think by 2023 we're going to use everything that was available to us in the first financial framework and that's to back up the numbers. Now this next one we're talking about again worth more than 24 billion kunas, we heard, so it's not for you, it's because the rules are like that, it's because of this, it's because of that. The only true real line is the one we had until 2011 and as an opposition and as a power then and after that when we entered means when we together wanted to achieve that goal to join the EU, now those benefits are slightly visible. Some of us have benefited before us since 2004, the countries we compare with, had the advantage, had no war, had no restoration or all the care of exiles and everything else, we constantly compare with them and say we are the last, we are the last, we are the last, etc. We need obvious times like many who have been in that period since '57. so to this day, they wanted us to join the EU to learn some rules and to solve in the best possible way what stands before us, and I think this multiannual financial framework clearly shows that we can because we have learned to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26199	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Josip Begonj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26200	Thank you, Vice President. I'll fight my friend. You yourself have said the amounts and figures that await us in a new perspective in the new EU financial envelope. I wonder if these funds are not only important for the country as a whole but above all for local communities, for the realization of their projects that we are not EU members could all these projects that have been implemented from national sources be realized? I, for example, can tell you that 20 European projects about 130 million kuna of grants The City of Drniš could not be realised throughout the century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26201	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26202	Thank you very much. He's a friend of Begonja's. So what was important was what the minister said in his opening speech, we remained in the rules that we had in the first financial framework that was for us. I tell someone he was the fifth, and we were only the first, and with those 15 percent co-financing rules, we got a lot because the second one's at 20 or 30% co-financing, you still have to allocate more national funding to solve the investment, like 10 million kuna. It is not all the same to give local self-government 3 million own funds or a million and a half kuna to 10 million. To get it today... percent or let's say on that investment 8.5 million kuna of grants no one in this world will give it to you except that we have the opportunity to get it with people, with countries with which we are in the EU from funds and thus develop ourselves and deploy our resources where we have the greatest needs, and that's the sociale, it's demographics, it's wages etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26203	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26204	Thank you, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Boric's. Too bad today the debate on this topic isn't alive, here behind this point we have the Explosive Substances Act, I think it's going to be much more lively and that a lot more colleagues will apply. I will rely on the replica of my colleague Begonje, I recently spoke to a mayor down in Split-Dalmatia County, informally in the conversation we mentioned how long it would take today to build an airport in Split. And we have so many good examples here, we have so many people from all over all the municipalities and cities we should have put back into it. Today we have a renovated or built port of Dubrovnik, Split, Zagreb seaport I will not even mention. Cities and municipalities in Croatia could not have done it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26205	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26206	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bacic's. I remember the time when she was acting both in the ministry and how we were dealing with infrastructure projects, really very few funds from pre-accession funds that we mainly taught the rules on how to use them when we join the EU and most of the funding from the national ones, let's say the revenues we had through the state budget. And it was done even then, but not in such an easy way that it simply allows us to put everything we can income ourselves into other priorities that are also important to us without infrastructure suffering. And so today we can have modern airports, modern sea ports, we have modern roads we will probably have other opportunities from kindergartens, schools etc. Here is my proposal to try to provide funding for sports facilities in the next multi-year framework, halls that are difficult to finance, schools that are very difficult to finance from national funds and there are no other options to give the highest emphasis now that we have this kind of resources available.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26207	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26208	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric. So when it comes to withdrawing European money, most recently it has been said in amounts. I don't understand why we don't talk a little bit and in the percentages of what we've offered, does this sound better in terms of terms because if we talked about percentages then we might see that we haven't pulled as much as we could for a variety of reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26209	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26210	Thank you very much. I'll try to explain on my example. I signed a contract to the Ministry of Regional Development 2018. The road we're building here, we're going to realize these days. This is why we are talking about total assets and why it is important for N+3 since for the first time we are a country that has a multi-annual financial framework to be used fully and why we are important for the next three years that many of the investments that have been launched are realised by the end of three years, that those who have failed and have contracts or have been negotiated through these excess contracts withdraw and those funds that will not be realised by those who unfortunately failed even though they may have had opportunities. either they did not secure their own resources or could not find the maybe common policy at local level or some other situations, there is everything. But it's important that we have funding and that we have time to realize it. Today we crossed what we wanted, so over 50% paid and probably in the next 3 years full 100%. That is what should be said to Croatian citizens, and they are therefore important that these rules remain for the next 7 years that are ahead of us, and this is also the document that confirms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26211	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. I mean, here's the man who sits here in the House and likes to listen to what's being said so he can do the best articulation and transfer it to those who have chosen me to sit in this honorable House and share with them both good and evil. So I'm going to start, here's a colleague of Lalovec's who may best have said at the beginning of his presentation, that this, with the state budget, might be one of the most important decisions that is being discussed in the first place. Why? Because we are part of this community, we are part of the EU, we are no longer in pre-accession negotiations with the EU, we are a Member State and what we get, or what we participate in the common EU budget is very, very important. I come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, often here in the Croatian Parliament talk about the region and it is my duty to explain in several perhaps folk sentences what it means, which means carefully listening to the minister about what he was saying. In 7 years, we got 30 billion kunas more than we paid. On one kuna, we've got five kunas. Other EU member states are participating around 50% when it comes to investments made. We're at 85%. These are figures that clearly state that both the Croatian government and what our finance minister and people going to the EU are negotiating. We're going to get, we're going to get, it may be an inappropriate example, but it's an inappropriate word in that sense, but 24.2 billion in the next six years. Josip Boric spoke excellently about when we had just entered the story of the arrival of other EU member states. It is a parameter that must, if we are to be honest, if we are to be realistic, then it must be put into calculation and say, we entered the EU on 1 July 2013 and it is practically the second envelope in which we participate, if we exclude that part of the story when we were preparing to join the EU. Today, there was a debate here that was heading towards building unnecessary infrastructure projects in villages that are disappearing anyway, which are likely to fail, which will probably not keep any residents. It's a very dangerous thesis and a very dangerous debate. Why? Because if we don't put the infrastructure in exactly the kind of places that are most sensitive, that have problems with all things anyway, I think we're doing a lot of damage to these people and we're sending them a message, so go free, it's not worth investing in anyway. It's a dangerous thesis. The government of the Republic of Croatia built 233 kindergartens in a year and a half. My place, which has 1600 inhabitants, is finished with kindergarten. There are 30 children in that kindergarten from my village today. So these parents who sent their children to kindergarten can go find a job, get a job, and can live and work normally. Someone would say so why the village of 1500 inhabitants would have kindergartens? Here, you see, that's an example. Do you know how much investment there was in the local self-government unit or the city of Valpova? Nothing, 0 kuna. The total amount was paid by the ministry through measure 741 and part of the province of Osijek-Baranja was paid off. That's the important thing. We will soon meet here with an interpretation of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem where they will try to attack something which, when viewed through the historical context, is the best thing that has happened to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in the past 150 years. But we're going to need to discuss here how an individual, with a name and a last name, used some kind of means. So let's hand it over to the DORH, and let them figure it out. But attacking a project that has brought so much good, 19 thousand projects are currently being prepared and implemented in Slavonia and Baranja space. If we take that space to have about 700 thousand inhabitants, 19 thousand projects. So aren't those the figures that these people who are watching us should listen to, who should encourage them to create this better Croatia that we stand for, not that daily politics is always our first priority and everything else draws us out and draws us out of focus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26213	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, to Ivanovic, as you are proud of the Slavonia you come from, so I am proud of my Moslavin and I can say the same as you that these EU funds have helped to develop the region, but also many infrastructure projects. The fact is that Moslavina is a much richer part of our Sisak-Moslavina County than the part that suffered by war, especially Banovina, and therefore it is very important that the Government recognised this problem of differences in development and established in the programme of its work, which was adopted here that both Banovina and Liku and Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia Zagora will especially support the additional financial resources, such as, in recent days, a tender for the assistance of local and regional self-government units to co-finance EU projects because they do not all have the same capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26215	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26216	Thank you very much. What kind of man would I be if you represented only the interest of Slavonia, Baranja and Sreme from which I came. Of course, all undeveloped regions of the Republic of Croatia are equally, equally important. In this it is the whole story that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Andreja Plenkovic, recognises that part, that we must develop, has no developed Croatia without all its components, and that is also Zagora and Lika and Zagorje, and Prigorje, and Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem absolutely agree. What I may have forgotten to say, and I'm going to be apostrophe now, about what MP Petir said, I agree with part of the MPs who said that we have to invest in people who are trained to write projects, which are going to live, that's very important. It's a message to local and regional self-government leaders, invest in personnel, no quality personnel, no money. This money doesn't fall off a tree this money must be withdrawn by quality projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26217	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26218	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Ivanovic, you have set an example of perhaps some small towns or smaller municipalities here from the middle from which you come. It's important here in attracting eu funds, we had a big problem that the small environments for small budgets couldn't even pull the big project, so the government of the Republic of Croatia jumped in, so we had a tax reform that from the Income Act and the rest of the more funds left at all on the margins of the counties so that they could get involved in the realisation of certain eu projects. When we sum up everything now, all of those flaws or shortcomings that we had in the past EU financial plan today we have very much enough experience, but here we should hear examples of other environments, pass it on to the Minister to the Government and simply prepare ourselves quite well that since 1.1.2021 we simply use as much as possible as possible in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26219	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26220	Thank you very much. That is exactly what we cannot look at all through the perspective of the EU and the envelopes that we will achieve over these six years. The point of the Croatian state is that it takes care of its people who live here and right through this part of the balance where we are really top-notch, it is a decision that may be one of the best in the last 30 years since Croatia's countries where regardless of political ideologicality where all units of local self-government that are less developed have withdrawn money that has significantly helped them realise projects just like this, which are being talked about by counterpart Bačić for which they did not have enough capacity to go across the EU, that is the point. This synergy of European money and the money of our ministries and what the government is preparing is crucial for success in the future of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26221	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26222	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague. In your discussion, you referred precisely to the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and how important this project is for Slavonia. It is this project that corrects the injustices that some previous governments have done to Slavonia, and here I have only one piece of information that almost 17 billion kunas and 88% of total allotment have been agreed so far. And what you mentioned in your discussion, which is building kindergartens in small municipalities, so here I can also testify how important it is in some municipalities. From my county such as Garcin, Sibinj, Stupnik here we now expect a quick opening and I must confess to you and boast that these kindergartens are small for the number of children still waiting on registration lists. Well, here's just a few good data, I hope we'll testify to better next year, because this year is certainly one of the hardest after the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26223	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26224	Thank you very much. I can absolutely agree. Without built infrastructure and in the smallest place there is no developed Croatia, there is no arrival of investors. If you don't have a road, if you don't have a school, if you don't have kindergartens, if you don't have anything to show any interest in coming to your place at all. I agree that every attempt that has come to life should continue with it, and this one certainly has done me a revolutionary job not only in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, but throughout Croatia. If in this direction we all advocate precisely that we want a perspective for Croatia in terms of built and municipal and social infrastructure, I am sure that we will achieve the goal we seek. But it will not, of course, be easy or simple work, much depends not only on the government of the Republic of Croatia but also on the leaders of the units of local, regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26225	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26226	Thank you. I believe that 19 000 projects are being written in Slavonia, but unfortunately in the media we can read that many users who may not have really had to earn it, and that many OPGs who wrote the projects have invested money in writing projects again remain below that line to get the funds, that many have closed their farms, their OPGs. Since there is a considerable amount of money in EU funds that we are not taking advantage of very well and all these projects written by various consultants, development agencies unfortunately have not changed the situation in Slavonia. Slavons continue to leave Croatia, Slavonia is becoming more empty. I drive a lot less through Slavonia than you do, but I'm driving, so I see and I believe you can see more. So with all that money, we haven't changed the trend. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26227	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26228	Thank you very much. I said in this debate, I'd be what kind of man I would be if I close my eyes to someone trying to steal something, alienate, take what doesn't belong to him. You have your name and last name let them deal with them institutions I don't mind. But there will always be that impression. He can be subjective, and he can be objective, I live my whole life in that neighborhood every day I'm somewhere, a man who simply lives in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem and I would say that this assessment of that Slavonia is moving out so much, it doesn't stand in his habitat. There are, of course, people who leave Slavonia have examples of where people come back, start firms, work to start their families and stay, so maybe for some successes, for some successes, we need little and time instances to pass, so that we can see where we are and what we are, but overall, I think this is much better than what we had. ever in Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26229	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associate, MPs and MPs. After long-term negotiations on the EU's multiannual financial framework, Croatia has voted 24.2 billion euros, which is not the result of the mere happiness but of systematic work, activity and representation of our interests in the large European family. That Croatia gets more than it invests, says the fact that every euro invested will receive 5 euros from the EU budget. It should be fair and said that we would be much harder to deal with both the coronary crisis and the consequences of the recent earthquake that there is no support and assistance from the EU. There is therefore no doubt about the benefits of Croatian membership in the EU as well as the fact that it is necessary to support the Council Decision on the system of own resources of the EU, which regulates the system of financing the EU budget, which currently consists of 3 main categories of revenue. The agreement reached on a multi-annual financial framework package for the future 7-year period provides for the introduction of a new income category based on own resources from non-recycled plastic packaging waste in line with the Union Green Transition Strategy and the sustainable economy. It is important to point out once again that this is not about a new tax or tax, and this will have no consequences for the private budgets of our citizens. It is also important to point out that membership in the Union is not only a matter of finance but also a question of our common values that we represent and the preservation of these values. It is important that the Union cultivates the principle of solidarity, and in this respect recognises the need to assist Member States and those areas where the Union may not have direct jurisdiction. This concerns the problem of the depopulation, especially rural environments, which is expressed in a large number of Member States, as well as in Croatia. Keeping young people in the country, involving young people actively in the engagement around agricultural activities are crucial to preventing these negative movements, but also to improve the quality of life in the country with the necessary level of services. Large financial resources are invested in agriculture and rural development from the EU budget. For Croatian agriculture in the future 7-year period, 4.5 billion euros are secured and we must invest these funds through well-designed projects in the best possible way by developing the concept of smart villages, encouraging generation renewal of villages, but also investing in money to keep existing village residents, attracting new residents and new entrepreneurs. Support for young farmers will rise from 50 to 100 000 euros, and this is an excellent measure because it actually brings a double increase in aid for the launch of the agricultural holding, but it will not be sufficient in itself unless access to agricultural land is resolved by favourable loans and smooth business on the market, and if young farmers are given priority in the use of national reserves in direct payments. All I've listed are the things that we still have to solve, we can't expect the EU to solve them for us. It is also important to create a positive picture of young farmers and promote their projects that characterize innovation, sustainability and market orientation. Our goal is for young people to stay in the country for the rural space to survive. I am extremely pleased that there are young people in Croatia who, despite all the challenges, have recognized agriculture as a branch that they want to deal with and want to live on and stay on their grandfatherland and homeland and thus protect Croatia's space. They have my support and I'm extremely proud of them. It should also be said that the crown crisis has brought a lot of bad ones, but on the other hand has increased the interest of our citizens in domestic agricultural products, which is a positive trend, and this trend should certainly be maintained because the increase in domestic production is a prerequisite for self-sufficiency, and food self-sufficiency is a matter of national security, so I would also appeal to prescribe the quality of agricultural products and thus ensure better placement of Croatian agricultural products on the market, which would give producers and consumers additional wind in the core. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26231	Here's a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26232	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Petir, you also mentioned the coronary crisis and the earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area, and now the situation in which we are present and the means ahead and everything that will cost us in the next period. When we go back a little bit, if the government hadn't prepared itself, if we hadn't maintained a credit rating, if we hadn't reprogrammed the loans, hadn't maintained years of budget surplus, which we have to thank the present Minister Maric here, not to mention how many benefits we were now in the Eurozone at the beginning of this crisis, it's hard to even see what the Republic of Croatia would look like, if the government could invest 10 billion kuna in entrepreneurs to preserve jobs and what everything from this pandemic in economic terms would come out. So when we look at EU funds and everything, I think that the benefits are clear to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26233	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26234	So thank you very much, colleague Bačić, you are absolutely right, there are a number of segments in which we can clearly and explicitly prove the benefits of Croatia's EU membership. You yourself have mentioned the natural efforts that seem and should appear within your own country because the EU is assessing our efforts and, on the basis of them, also the arguments we give and the projects we offer and our pledges are approved by certain financial resources. I think that here we have been able to prove through this period that we are highly competent that we can respond in a good way to the sudden crises that are quite difficult and especially when they happen at the same time as the crown crisis and earthquake, I am glad that the government within our capacities has found the means for those first intervention aids as well as what has negotiated the future aids that we will now use from the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26235	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26236	... Honorable MPs, Your Honor. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear MPs, I'm sure I agree, you've said a few very important things. Surely it is of great interest to be in such a large family and it is certain that all these events, unfortunately, that have hit us both from the earthquakes and from the crown of the virus, would be very difficult and almost impossible to solve. But surely one important, important thing that you mentioned, which is a challenge that we as a people, are values that we ourselves must accept and that this government that does all these years is the recognition of how well it is done, but also the values that we as a people and values and young people and the survival and survival of villages and agriculture of preservation of all, not just jobs, but also moral values are certain that it is very important for all of us as a people. So we repeat that every day as Parliament's representatives, but to get it deep into every Croatian man's ear to be a part of the European family, it's a good thing that it's perhaps the most valuable thing that's happened and that this government is doing great. But that the values we have as the people we inherited through the centuries that [[Intruder: Time]] We have to preserve it ourselves. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26237	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26238	Thank you, Agent Deur, you are absolutely right because we often look at our EU membership only through billions of euros, which, of course, is necessary because without money it would be difficult to launch some important projects and contribute to the development of the economy and agriculture and other segments of our lives. But I would say that the values are somehow on the same level because what will be worth all that money if we lose what the Croatian national being is growing and being preserved. I often talk about the village because I come from the village myself, live in the country, and I don't think it's too bad to repeat once again that the Croatian village has preserved the faith, language, costume, identity of the Croatian people, while people live in the country are roasting bread in the oven, the country is being processed, one life is taking place, and it deserves special support. It's our tradition, but it's our identity and it's something that's actually a lot more than all these billions of about We're talking. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26239	The next replica, distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26240	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26241	A microphone, please, a microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26242	Listen to respected MPs say that we should promote agriculture and that young people stay and deal with this activity. And agriculture, agricultural support grew from 3.6 billion to 7 while at the same time the decline in production was for the same amount. So 4 billion is growing, and the production is dropping by 4 billion. Can you explain that phenomenon to me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26243	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26244	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Agent Spijic. I think that we should encourage young people to stay in the country because if generation renewal doesn't happen, I'm afraid that we will no longer have resources or people who will be able to process the country and produce food for us, and that will make us completely dependent on imports. It is clear from your very presentation that it is necessary to invest in agricultural production because without these investments, the question of how self-sufficient we could be in some segments where we are self-sufficient today. This means that when we talk about aid, I have already said it, coming to a balanced and measured way of granting support because it is not acceptable for a total of 20 agricultural economies to receive 545 times as much support as the rest. This means that we need one balance here, and at that point, Now it's working. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26245	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26246	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, here we are 10 years ago. The EU has been a model to us not only in cultural, creative, industrial terms, but also in each other. And now that we are a member of the EU and we can use some of the benefits that the EU has given us, we have people who actually deny it and say that we do not actually benefit from the EU, and we are witnessing how many projects all over Croatia have been, and thanks to the EU. It seems to me here that, in fact, maybe we should talk again and again every time about the benefits of the EU, and if anything else in the civilization form, the quality of life itself is much better because we have quality examples in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26247	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26248	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. I agree with you that the advantage and benefit for Croatia is certainly our long-awaited EU membership, which we have worked on for a long time, even longer, perhaps even negotiated, and it has not been easy to achieve. It was safe at the beginning of certain discrepancies and perhaps completely misjudged situations and measures, but I'd say here with one moment now that I look back, it seems to me that we're still in a good position. It is very important that our representatives of the government together with the prime minister, but also the representatives of Croatia seek to present them in the best possible way by addressing those topics that are important to our citizens and lobbying for the removal of some obstacles because let us not forget that we as a new Member State are still in a position to seek exceptions for some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26249	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26250	Respected. Here I must say that I am fascinated by the level of self-gratitude of these MPs by the perspective of our use and the RRF and funds from the new financial perspective so far quite badly, and I will say something about this in the final speech because here are not the key information for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm going to ask you something else since I know it's your area, which is how you explain that Croatia who knew that we would have a tax on plastics, unrecycled plastics, and that we would have to invest in the European budget 800 euros per tonne minus 13 million euros in decreases from the flat-rate amount and that it would be about 150 million kuna per year, how come we didn't invest in plastic recycling projects in this entire financial perspective of 2014-2020, but instead we were re-instituting OSI funds for the environment to save them?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26251	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26252	Thank you very much, colleague Bencic, for your replica. We are pleased that you joined us during this debate which is extremely important because it speaks about the future financial perspective during the next seven years. You know for yourself that operational programmes are being adopted and that, on the basis of these operational programmes, Member States are building for each area, and must be approved by the European Commission, and then implemented by projects. Therefore, you cannot carry out in this respect the activities and measures that will be financed from the EU if they are not foreseen. I can agree with you that we have to make a much greater effort to recover as much waste as possible, and in that sense there is certainly room for progress, not only when we talk about plastic packaging waste but also about all other types of waste because it would be the logical thing to have a classification already on the doorstep and to try to use everything that is useful to make as much junk as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26253	The last replica of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26254	My colleague Petir, Croatia is at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the Eu funds in the current period of 2014-2020, which is what it is saying and at one point you said that it is much more up to us than to those funds that we have within the EU within the funds. However, it is in no way clear to me that the Croatian state has never given any more incentives in agriculture, we have never exported less, we have never imported again. 6% of GDP is from the evicted Croats from the signs where our farmers in other countries are bathed, and ours are not modeled, which means that Croatia is below 4 million people, and the village is empty. Without a village at the head, there is no perspective or development of society. All these funds that came to Croatia how do you think they are focused on demographics in the village and underdeveloped...?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26255	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26256	Dear Representative Bulj, I thank you for your rep. I would not agree with you in the conclusion that Croatia is the last to withdraw funds. You know that so far we've contracted over 90% in agriculture even more, and over 50% we've withdrawn. I agree with the fact that the Croatian villages need a systematic and targeted investment, I also spoke about it in several of my discussions because I believe that at the time the current budget period ending in 2020, rural development measures were not best affected. This could perhaps best be apostrophe to an animal welfare measure that had just recently entered into circulation, so it was only planned recently for use, and that it had started to be used long before then I believe that we would have done a lot more to save our cattle stock because it is clear to everyone once the farm closes down hardly anyone will open it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26257	No more replicas, thank you very much. We have a request for a break, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26258	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes because we're talking about a very important topic where we have to tell the truth to the people. The other projects have been agreed, and the other funds have been withdrawn. Croatia is at the bottom of the EU by withdrawing funds. Some of the approximately 25% of the funds withdrawn from the EU, and the agreed funds have not been withdrawn, and we are at the end of the budget period, in 2023 all these projects must be completed. So don't deceive the public, so the Croatian village would not be empty and two-thirds of Croatia would be empty if it were invested in the Croatian village and peasants, the Croatian peasant would not be plowing other countries, Croatia would not be dependent on foreign products, would not import 3 billion euros of food products, but would be domestic products on our drawers, not a model Croatian country. 800,000 acres of raw agricultural land. The village is empty, without the village rich, strong there is no rich Croatia. We all draw origins mostly from these villages, so go and look at those villages. Don't deceive the public, never again to encourage. Who are you giving this money to? You give to those who don't know what a cow looks like, how many cows have tits. I say that in public, if the triba comes before all courts. You usurped that money to create your party infrastructure, and basically you created two-thirds of Croatia empty. Well, right now, we're people under four million people, four million people, respected fellow Petyr. Is this how Croatia continues to speak and deceive the public with thanks, what have you done? I am afraid that Croatia will die out, but within me... and hope is that we will return to those perspectives of our peasants and the village will be headed by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26259	Time. The next reason for the break, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26260	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club in order to discuss how to address the fact that no extremely important information has been discussed here, new information coming from the European Commission on our perspective of using the Recovery Fund, but also a new financial perspective, given precisely the submergence in the use of funds from the financial perspective in which we are still 2014-20. In particular, I would like to stress here that no one has said that the European Commission has also told us that it is not relevant to the contractual means but rather to the means used and certified. Out of the total location of 10.7 billion, we have certified so-called paid and certified funds 3.5 and 35% of 2020, respectively. at the end of the financial perspective. But that is not a problem in itself, the problem is that the European Commission has told us, and that is the information that we need to get from Brussels instead of getting from ministers and prime ministers here, which is that the use of funds from the Recovery Fund and our ability to use it will depend on evidence that we have spent funds from the financial perspective by 2020 and on the effects of these projects. We're working now... The evaluations therefore seem to be the middle of a financial perspective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do we prove these effects? Why don't you tell the citizens that it's possible that we won't see the funds for another two or three years?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26261	I'll give you five minutes to 12.35, and we'll get back to work. MEETING AT 12:31 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac. Please, colleagues, will you allow Mr. Lalovec? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the opening debate, I have actually given some emphasis from a macro-economic perspective on what it means to be more positive than negative for Croatia and not only through the stabilisation of our bonds, through the stabilisation of the overall availability of capital in these difficult times, but certainly, and there is certainly an impact on our exchange rate, a very important thing. Today, we all think it's simple, but it's not exactly a pressure on the exchange rate when you don't have EUR, when we haven't had a season, when there's no inflow and investment, when investment stops to keep the course stable. Today, we see it as normal, but precisely because we actually get around 2 billion inflows every year, so it comes to Croatia from the EUR. It's also one of the mechanisms where it stabilizes our course. That is why we say that the overall macroeconomic perspective of today is what we say is good for Croatia and that it has a multiple effect. However, now that we are coming into operational programmes, when we say that Croatia will use these funds, this is what we are now asking, the EUR 24 billion is determined by algorithms, as the minister himself said, and the payment itself is determined by algorithms, and on the other hand we are talking about how Croatia will use these funds and here we are now talking about how we are 30%, although we have already agreed more than 90%, 30% is that withdrawn certain funds and we are actually talking about the strength of our administration. So it would be good if we were to also bring the budget, so my well-intentioned criticism here was to put more things into a mere explanation that we could discuss better because to see at all how many people who are now working in our administration, how many of them are on the state budget, how much, how much we pay them, if we need to increase them, here we are talking about an increase in wages to get a full picture of how many people are working on these funds, on fundraising and doing, see EUR 24 billion. When we say, when you take a company of 150 billion kuna, you take it as some kind of money that they will have to provide in some future in the next 5-6 years, so you don't have in Croatia, which companies have that kind of income. There aren't any companies like that that will be in the next six to seven years. provide some kind of 150 billion kuna inflow, they are not in Croatia. We here are afraid to say how many of these people are working to attract those 150 billion. We also have to say that we see these people who are the scope of people, and that's public administration reform. Get through that public administration reform. Public administration doesn't have to mean just firing people. Straightly, public administration reform can also mean that people who work in public administration and unfortunately everyone today is a catcher, a very ugly word for all people who work hard in public administration, from health professionals, people who work in schools, people who work in police, people who work in the entire system eat 250,000 people 150,000 people you work in health and education. And that's why that word is not, it's bad that we hear constantly from the private sector how they finance some kind of earring on, on, on the budget. And now take people who work on these EU funds, who need to bring in 150 billion kuna in Croatia to call them what's wrong, and we need to turn the perception around. But so tell them how many of them are doing, let's give them better receipts, we have to stimulate them, it's a reform that people who work maybe on some jobs that may not be productive at the moment, which tomorrow by digitizing simply disappears because we want a digital public administration. It does not necessarily mean that these people will lose their jobs, it may mean that we will requalify them and let them work because they are already working in the system on public administration affairs or the collection of EU funds and formations, you must have a serious team there. There you have to have a serious team for the next period and raise 150 billion, 150 billion kuna. Believe me, if you go to the private sector, the question is how will the private sector manage to reorganise and raise these funds after this crisis. And that's why it's important to say that this is a good thing, but give us more information that we can have a better discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26264	We have a few replicas, please wait for your esteemed colleague, Lalovec. The first is Honored Representative Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26265	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you've also been Minister of Finance before and you're a serious man and you've got a measured performance. Here, I would ask you to tell us if you really think about the EU as bad as the people on the left think, and does our, our EU membership really make us different than before we were members of the EU? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26266	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26267	Thank you very much for asking. So you can see from my views that I strongly support the direction Croatia is going and that the perspective of Croatia is good. And I'll tell you one thing, 2004. When dozens of countries received in the EU and our neighbouring Slovenia, God gave us that Croatia was then admitted into the EU, it would not be this disproportionate and that we were last at the beginning, so it is not because we are so bad, but because we were admitted in 2004. See the growth of Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, these countries since 2004, as they reacted to the 2008 crisis. and Croatia should be told disabled that it was not received in 2004. in the EU because if it had been adopted today we would not have been so behind all these countries and only the first real budget, or others, are using it now. And that's why our problem of reaching all these countries is going to be a little longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26268	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26269	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, I agree with you that administrative capacities should be improved at all levels of the public sector and the private sector if we are to withdraw this money that is ahead of us. And I wanted to ask you, is the structure of the EU budget's revenue changing due to the decline in EU member states' gross national income caused by the covid 19 crisis, which is why a new fine of budget revenues is being introduced, or would regardless of the crisis be changing the structure of budget revenues because we know that money is never enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26270	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26271	Thank you. As I document says, the structure is changing. Why? Because it changes according to European programmes, you can see that they introduce "various" taxes and digital ones, etc. where it will replace our national component towards GDP or GNI, etc. However, what is very important here to tell Croatian citizens, the structure of the Croatian budget is also changing, and that is good, I have said that several times when the prime minister was here. Why? Because we will more finance the development of the economy, the development of public administration, the development of the administration will be financed by eu funds, not Croatian taxes. And this is an even greater contribution to use, and here we are talking about the EU's revenues that the Croatian budget will change. We know ourselves that most of the agriculture we get now from Europe, before we get exclusively from VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26272	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26273	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lalovac, here ruling all morning, says how much money they've been making. We know that at the end of the financial period 2014-2020, tell me is it the same deal at the end of the period or when they say the funds are withdrawn? Something else has been withdrawn from the funds that we have done where we have justice and we have done it, but to boast in the end that when someone says as a colleague, Petir just recently, that the funds have been agreed, I don't know what percentage, but the fact is that Croatia is at the bottom of the EU at the price of 2014-2020. Please explain agreed and withdrawn so that our citizens will no longer lie and deceive them because we hear it from most of them all morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26274	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26275	Thank you. Col. Bulj, it's certainly that what you said we were at 30%, 35% shows how much our administration is doing for the first time, let's be honest for the first time doing this job, for the first time doing this job with which the challenges are to withdraw 100% of the amount in the first year. And what you're saying is reality. But on the other hand, when you look at it, I would like to separate it from the party if it is now in the power of Andrej Plenkovic or Zoran Milanovic and now we are better off withdrawing from you. People of my administration must withdraw that we don't have a government, that we don't have a government crisis, so how successful is some administration not to commit to the party, and that if we set it as a criterion, Belgium didn't have two, three years of government, and they were the best at withdrawing certain funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26276	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26277	Thank you very much. He's been injured. Two hundred and thirty-eight guilty... They're coming out. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] If we're fair to the first thing of Milanovic's government 9% of the deal, 1% of the payout, today we're at 108% of the contract, over 40% of the payout. So we know what it is, we have N+3 we're going to use all the resources, let's all get stuck together to plan the next envelope.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26278	This was a replica you have a warning. Are you the one who's done the injury or aren't you Bull? Yes, it is. Here's Miro Bulj's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26279	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić is well aware of... perfumes and good wines, so I am withdrawing this replica, as minister, withdrawing this violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26280	Okay. This wasn't an injury and you have a warning. Here's a distinguished representative of Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26281	Dear colleague. So here you mentioned achievements and how much Croatia has developed, we know that Croatia's development and success by 2008 was 64% of its development compared to the EU. After the crisis it was and in times of crisis it fell to 60%, therefore what you said we were members of the EU then would have been much easier to endure the 2008 crisis that lasted for six years. And what we're actually expecting right now, and we've been trying here since 2019 to reach a level of about 75% at which level is Slovakia, for example. about which you spoke about what it meant for that period of overcoming all crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26282	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26283	Thank you very much. Well, that's right. Watch 2004. when the market conditions were completely different when capital flows were completely different where you have very strong investment from those countries in Eastern Europe in the auto-industry, not only in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and others, so you have a strong capital flow and plus eu funds, Croatia was disabled that it could not benefit. It is now a fact that Croatia is unfortunately dependent on the fact that banks are attracted, there is no funding, there is a poor flow of capital towards investments to enter a country because they are simply afraid of people and this is one of the most important sources of income not only for stability but for encouraging the economy is that we are not in access to this one very difficult to find resources to stimulate recovery, and that is why we will get out of the crisis much sooner than that, but that it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26284	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26285	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, you spoke of the scope of people working to withdraw EU funds. And indeed 150 billion kuna is an extremely high potential and there is almost no mayor, mayor, mayor, citizen, who does not see exactly the solution to his big problem, whether it is the construction of a sports hall, kindergarten, sewer system and the like. But it won't be possible if we don't have quality people working on it. These people should be adequately paid, not that they're happening to us like so far to be educated within the system and then later, because they're not well paid, they go to private consultants. I would appeal to all of us from this place and when it comes to budgeting not only to look at or call the ruling if some more funds are left for personal incomes, because it is eventually withdrawing and that part of the European funds within a particular project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26287	Thank you. I agree, I was actually talking, and I'm sorry, actually, that my colleague Pavic is tying up Zoran's people, Andre's people, that's bad, that's a bad message. There is an administration, a Croatian administration when it goes towards Brussels that we are able to withdraw funds no matter what they call it. The separation and strengthening of the administration at both local and national level is Croatia's success. Croatia's success as a country does not bind to a person. And we remember a time where we all tied to a person, a person and a previous time, and it showed that it wasn't good. And that's why I'd like to say in our discussions what you said about strengthening the Croatian administration, Croatian people who do, but to get the numbers that these people are, to know how many people they have to raise 150 billion, it's not a small amount of money, but because if we don't, we don't know what the number of people is, then we don't know what we're managing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26288	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26289	First, I would refer to the findings with, of our HDZ colleagues, that the opposition is Eurosceptic. That's not true. The Eurosceptics in this assembly have their name and last name and should be appointed. It's wrong to say so. Just like it's wrong to say that HDZ members steal, not everyone steals. And that's not good to say, so don't say things like that in this assembly. Secondly, I wanted to ask you to comment. You mentioned digitization and problems in understanding people that they'd be out of a job. Namely, the purpose of digitization is not only to put new systems into operation, to get new applications, but also to actually get these systems in some way with data, without data, we have nothing, so who's going to enter those data into the system? People who have done something manual so far. Therefore, no one will lose their jobs, people should be requalified and given new assignments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26290	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26291	Thank you. You're right. The programmes themselves other than environmental, environmental programs are very much at stake, talking about digitization. You've actually worked in FINA where, I think FINA has, has its own future as much as in some private sector thinks it's some kind of mastodon that's actually a burden, I think FINA is a good service to Croatian citizens, it can also be the use of EU funds, providing certain services and for the state on-line service. We know we've also been working on COP, a very important project, e-Citizens, etc., fiscalization. So it turns out that in some things and the state can be very competitive and good at establishing certain digital services, and that it is not just, we talk about a certain part of the private sector all the time. We agree that this is some future, but the state has also shown that it can be very well known and good in some projects related to digitisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26292	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26293	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, you have touched some, only some segments about it actually around this name that, that all the money that is allocated to the EU budget is by our defolt, so it literally will fall from the sky and that we just need to watch it spend and where. It's not like that. You said that human resources are part of that problem, absolutely they are. But the other thing that we were talking about a little earlier when we were looking for a break, and that's how much of the funds were actually withdrawn, how they were spent and what the effects were. I'm afraid despite the claims on the right side of the assembly, we're not a great team anymore, which we need to demystify again. Contracts don't mean they're paid. It is only when we talk about paid funds that have come from the EU that we are talking about. Because until they're paid, they don't actually have to be paid, the funds agreed by the difolt don't mean that the project will be properly implemented and that we will withdraw funds from Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26294	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26295	Thank you. That's right. So, in the debate itself, we said how important the Croatian administration is, not only in the bargaining but also in the withdrawal of funds, and it is not a simple job. As many people think, I don't know how many people you really are in general, I have no idea if they're paid 10.000 kuna, 15, what your colleague said goes into the private sector, they get better receipts. But imagine 150 billion kuna money in the private sector who can withdraw it, organize it, organize a company, organize whatever you want in Croatia, best mind to attract that money. So it's not simple, it's not a simple process. It's not a simple process, but surely it will be, subject to questioning, it's subject to actually asking questions, and it's actually up to the government to answer how it's going to solve these narrow throats, and it's actually very low payout at the moment, but it's actually up to them to convince us that it's going to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26296	Thank you. Mr. Lalovec, you've finished your lines with this. The next individual debate is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26297	My colleagues and colleagues, at the outset, I would like to say that it is a very good practice to discuss this in HS. Namely... constitutional procedures in certain Member States are as follows, around not about 20 Member States, in fact, prescribes that ratification of the Council decision we are now discussing in the national parliament is necessary, while the legal provisions of the five Member States do not oblige it, including Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is good to discuss this in HS, it is good that the Croatian public and the political public who has something to say about this can say that they can hear different data. First of all, we need to look back at what I said earlier in the replica, which is to demystify these European funds. In fact, the very fact that it will be voted very soon or that a multi-annual financial framework will be adopted does not mean that it belongs to Croatia, does not mean that we will succeed in withdrawing and spending it. What my colleague Lalovec is talking about is actually a painful truth, that we don't have enough human resources to work quality on pulling out this big financial envelope. It's definitely one of the problems that needs to be dealt with because our best quality is generally not being kept in public administration, going to private waters, the same thing is with local self-government units or employees there. So we have a very big job ahead of us, a very big task as far as human resources are concerned, that this money actually comes. The other thing is the money spent, that is, how we acted in the previous multiannual financial framework. Again, I have to demystify some claims from some side of the assembly that say we're doing great. It's not great, we're not good at all, we're actually at the European bottom. And again, I stress, it is agreed and paid, when something is agreed, it means that the project is approved, only after the project has been completed and the funds have been paid off. So the EU gives money at the end of the project. Unfortunately, because of a lot of irregularities and ineffectiveness, it is possible that some agreed projects will not eventually be paid or that we will not come to European money, but that the money we spent in the implementation of the project will have to do so from our own resources or that there will be no EU refund, that is what worries. Similarly, as regards new sources of funding, it is interesting to note what they are and what they are, meaning traditional EU own resources, which are primarily customs and sugar duties, the own VAT-based assets are added on the basis of the value added tax of each Member State, and apply... a rate of 0.3%, with the upper limit of the tax base of VAT at 50% of GNI for each country and it is interesting to stress that the methodology will be simplified. The GNI-based own resources stem from a single rate applicable to the GNI of the Member States that adapt each year to balance revenue with expenditure. In the end, I'd still like to say that everything depends on us in this period. The national development strategy is in consultation, I hope it will be adopted very soon, but only then will we be followed by a big job, which is programming. But programming will show how much we are up to this task because quality programming is a prerequisite for withdrawing as much funds as possible and not only that, it is not only the goal of withdrawing all funds. The goal is actually to channel them into what will benefit the Republic of Croatia, its citizens, and what will help us develop. Since we often wander in the opinion and long-term planning, it is very important at least now, at least indicatively to focus on the branches and areas in which we want to invest, why do we make a good argument, and then ultimately direct that money into these segments in order to make as much European money as possible to the right place that will have good effects or added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26298	Thank you, too. We have one replica from Mr. Lalovec, so wait for Mr. Hajdukovic's call. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. You said one very important thing, and actually it's ahead of us following the programming of operational programs. I don't know if we're going to have a debate in the Parliament about this, I don't know, maybe through some document like we have today, but I think it would be very good, is it clear that only in this debate today in the Parliament has a lot of questions and that are important for Croatian citizens, and what finally and for the Croatian budget, are you planning to get the president of the European Affairs Committee to call together a committee and on that committee to discuss operational planning, is that I think it's something that is now a step behind the adoption of these decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26300	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26301	Thank you very much. Col. Lalovac, absolutely yes, so in the first session of the Committee, when we were planning our work, we discussed this document, and therefore, along with the working body of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on European Affairs, took a position on this document. Also, although we could say that the parent working bodies for what you are talking about are the Committee on European Funds and the Committee on Finance where you are Vice President, I am very pleased to note that in this meeting, at least as far as the Committee Chairman is concerned, there is much more enthusiasm for European themes, so that I have already spoken to my colleague Pavic from the Committee on European Funds and we have agreed in principle that this is a very interesting topic which if we consider in the House we would be very much interested in considering within the framework of both committees or perhaps a joint session, but there are also finances very important. So I encourage you as vice-president of the Committee on Finance, but also other interested working bodies to get absolutely involved in this process and to discuss this as many working bodies as possible because it will not come to the tide operationally, it is in the government's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26302	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate, now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić. In the second attempt, he'll be successful. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26304	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to point out a few things that are related to EU entry and, firstly, that we were aware of, unfortunately, there is no minister, and unfortunately we were aware that we had to give up something to get on the other hand. When we talk about traditional own resources, of course these funds had to give up other members of the Union, but those who were more ready, who had better prepared to join the Union, knew what to do. What happened was that, in fact, companies from third countries, from non-EU countries, came with their facilities in other EU member states. And these EU members don't get money from customs afterwards, but their GDP is growing. Why? Because they have new companies that make them. Here's an example. Let's say KIA became a European product, Hyundai European product, computer industry,... European product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So customs doesn't have, but the GDP of the countries where these companies are growing. Unfortunately, we failed to attract these companies, and in that part we lost. The current situation in Croatia is not good even when we talk about GDP, nor when we talk about the situation with COVID pandemic. We take one leading and one last place, unfortunately with GDP per capita we are at the beginning of the EU ranking, and by the number of newly infected persons compared to the number of inhabitants we are unfortunately at the top of that same scale. When we look at macroeconomic indicators that are incomplete months ago. the CNB published on its website, we have no real reason for enthusiasm and it is obvious that we will need EU funds' assistance because the GDP that is already low will fall by a further 10%, according to estimates. This decline caused by the COVID crisis could cause many negative repercussions and will require specific measures and plans aimed at economic growth. Now, the funds that have provided us with 24.2 billion euros that Croatia should withdraw, means withdrawing from the EU funds and not getting, give us the right to have some indication of enthusiasm and hope that we will move forward, but since we know that we have withdrawn with 35% of the funds, although the percentage of the contract is very large, the question is whether this is the right place for enthusiasm. Let us not forget that units of local self-government have been counting on these money from Europe since they lost some of the money under the new laws, and that money will certainly not be able to win in the next year, two. However, in order to withdraw these funds, we need to prepare well with new projects, with new plans, with new measures and with new laws, and according to the information we have, we can say that we are currently not well prepared and that we have not done this job well. As for the other branches that we've touched a little bit as far as agriculture is concerned, we should invest in civil agriculture and industrial production. But let's not forget the digitization. 20 percent of the funds are reserved for digitisation in the Eu Funds. If we multiply it by 24 billion, we get almost 5 billion euros that we can actually spend on digitalization at the state level. If we know that the whole IT sector at the level of the year has a turnover of $3 billion, 3 billion, then we can be clear how much money it really is and how much we can actually boost and run from the level of the state because if there are real people in the right place, it can create extraordinary projects and it can run a part of the digitization. Let's not forget about projects made by types like NIAS for entry into E-Citizens, the type of central profit calculation, not to mention earlier projects like the tax system, the customs system that admired and the people of America when they came to us. And the Americans said when they saw our tax system, they had such a tax system, that they would have far more income than they now have from taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26305	Thank you, too. Stay. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadia was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, you said we failed to attract foreign companies to the Republic of Croatia, do you think that this is the reason for the unsettled land-marked state, corruption in local communities or local sheriffs or the long-term process of obtaining building permits or all together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26307	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26308	So if we were to talk about these problems, we have to be aware that we have everything together. We can also count the problems with building permits, we can also count the corruption problem, we can also count the problems involved in attracting these people to legislation, our laws are extremely complex, demanding and what is the worst thing, the company comes to Croatia, starts to negotiate, there is one law in force. The moment the negotiations are over, the second law is in force. Companies just don't trust our country and that's the problem. They can't do it that way because they're not sure, they don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow, they don't know what's gonna happen for me. days or in a year. We need to provide them with some kind of security and these companies, in fact, especially large companies, are greatly increasing GDP at the state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26309	Thank you. Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you spoke with this about digitisation and you were actually talking about the possibilities that are in front of Croatia, in fact, especially about 20% of the funds that can be withdrawn from the digitalisation funds. I prefer to talk about the Croatian administration, meaning what you were saying, so it shows that there are very good people in public administration who can do very good projects, not only through the tax administration system that you were saying, not only through the fiscalisation that may be the best of the best systems in Europe, for e-Citizens where the Croatian administration received recognition at world levels, or for example. The OIB system that was introduced there 10 years ago, 15 years ago, has shown that there is no difference whether someone is private or public, means that everything depends on people and those good people who can work in the Croatian administration that should be paid and should actually be treated in this way by people who work in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26311	Mr. Pavić, please respond. [[Intruder: Without further ado, of course...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26312	Without further ado, the reward that is given to these people and the motivation given to them through various and diverse activities these teams have, in fact, that these people have through teams and individually in individual institutions, in individual agencies, in individual companies, has a major impact on these people. And the better the motivational factor, these people are better quality and stay longer in the state administration. They don't leave because of 100 or 200 or 500 kuna, they won't leave the state administration, and that brings us quality in the development of information systems, they bring us quality in the administration. Believe me, if a man gets paid and a percentage, after all, all these agencies, where our people, who we trained at the state level, went to private agencies. Those agencies are working on a percentage. Why don't you reward those people with a percentage. So when they attract money, they get more pay. That's a plus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26313	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Marko Pavić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26314	Dear Vice President, colleague Pavić. So let's just go for the sake of Croatian citizens so we don't scare them. To spend the money, you have to make a deal. I appreciate Mr. Lalovec very much both as an expert and as a person, but when we say we don't have to call each other names, come out and congratulate the government for being so successful. We've taken over from you 9% of the contract, 1% of the payout. So how do we pay when you haven't arranged anything? 9%. And from 9% agreed we came to 108%, from 1% to 40%. We are approaching the EU average. We're still three years old, so M+3 is worth it, we're still three years old. So far, we haven't, and that's what's important for the citizens to say, no euro, not a cent, not a cent, not a cent. And you're just mad that you were a failure, and we are. Well, thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26315	Thank you. Mr. Pavić, come in. What? Who? Mr. Lalovec, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26316	Thank you very much. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. Hey, look, even though I'm probably getting a warning, we have to answer, so when you're only ready at the beginning of the period, in 2013, you have 9%, just like we'll probably have a lower percentage from a new multi-annual financial framework. Be a little bit correct when you talk about these things and then in such a transparent way, it's never a problem for me to praise something that's good, is it, but be correct at least in that part, when you talk, then say it was the beginning of the period, which will be the beginning of the 2001 period [[Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. /]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26317	Thank you. Thank you. Yes, there will be a warning. I mean, that's what I announced, and Mr. Lalovec, I'm sorry that you know it's gonna be a warning, so you're talking again, it really doesn't make any sense, right? There you go,.../incomprehensible/... no, right? Okay. Yeah? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26318	Here you go, Art. 238th injured. I agree with you, but also, if we want to be correct, in 2013, when we look at VFO, there's an article that countries that had had a crisis, and they got 10% before 2013, that your government was more proactive then, we could get a billion euros more in this period. We weren't proactive, we didn't use it. Now we have 24.5 billion euros. You lost a billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26319	Thank you very much. Yes, we want to be correct, so I have to give you a warning, too, for the sake of correctness. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26320	Dear Representative Pavic, don't forget that our government worked with the administration that you left behind, left by your government. We first needed to train our administration to be able to withdraw funds, money from funds, and only after that could these people start working. Well, when we trained them, we learned how to work, unfortunately you took over the government, and those people who knew how to work were pulling money from the funds. What's the problem? There's no problem here. So it's all clear and we've said it before. He's not pulling the government's money, he's being pulled by a state administration who knows, will and can work. You had an example of Belgium, which had no... Three years, and she was the most successful fund-raiser, fund-raiser. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't talk about governments, talk about an administration that knows and wants to work. And we left that administration and be happy about it and say thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26321	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic. Wait, wait, wait. Mr. Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26322	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavić, you have touched a very serious segment, it is digitisation, but we also need to keep in mind, and I must repeat that because they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, that the envelope that will be available to us will depend on the resources that we have withdrawn and the impact of the projects. So I'm stressing the effect here. Yeah, the truth is, we haven't lost any money yet. But the line's going to be under a lot later, so we can't tell at the end of the period whether or not we've been able to make the payments, we'll see about that later. And yet, truth be told, what you said, well, the corresponding Minister Pavic, so we were welcomed by an uneideness to the existence of projects, there was nothing left, a burned country. And then four years of work on the project application are the results that are now being praised by the government. Well, I congratulate Zoran Milanovic, and then I congratulate the government of Andrej Plenkovic who has been doing it so successfully. What the Government is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Zoran Milanovic was put on her feet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26323	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26324	Well, here I am, and I would like to answer further to former Minister Pavic, although once a minister, always a minister and it should be respected and respected. Don't forget that you didn't leave us a system that was required to withdraw.../incomprehensible/... so I'm talking about an information system that was mandatory and necessary, needed to withdraw money from the funds that we had to have, and we didn't have it. We should have built it ourselves and it doesn't last one day, it takes months, it takes years, you know that yourself. And consultations with the European Commission and consultations with consultants from Europe, etc., etc. So we weren't exactly in an envious position. I'm not talking about myself, we're talking about Zoran Milanovic's government. So, please, let's talk really real, objectively, honestly and correctly, talk about the state administration, try to keep these people in the administration, try to help people live normally in the state administration and stay there without paying the percentage of private firms, there's no need for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26325	Thank you very much, thank you. No more replicas, Mr. Pavić, thank you. And it's next, it's the second individual debate, it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26326	Folks, for the sake of truth, the people who are watching this, who have opportunities if they had these poorest to buy DVBT2 when it's changed now and the government hasn't for the first time provided for those who can, I have to tell the truth at first and the truth is that in this previous one, so all morning I've been listening to the ruling or the opposition here at all, so much praise would say, if I didn't live in the same country or maybe these lights have an impact on fellow parliamentary representatives. So... The whole time you've been mixing pears and apples, first of all, the second is the withdrawal of funds that have been withdrawn and the second is the contracted funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are at the end of the financial period 2014-2020 and these projects must be completed by 2023. That's the first one. And we are at the bottom of the European Union after withdrawing funds from the EU and we need to tell people the truth. And now the burden of transferring from here to local self-government is neither correct nor good. So now it is not a burden on the back and so much praise at the moment when 40% of local self-government units have no opportunity for one child to enable kindergarten, and in 2000 we are in Barcelona, the European Council has concluded that by 2020, this year, to gain the possibility that 90% of children have opportunities from 3 to 6 years of age to attend kindergarten and that these children have much more opportunities later to come to higher education than those who do not have opportunities. We currently have 2/3 of Croatia empty. Agriculture is at risk, we import 3m euros at a time when we will give 4.6 million each year, so a billion more kunas will give annual membership fees, fees, anything that goes into the EU fund. That's the facts. Are we going to use those funds? But if it... It's a question if we don't get organized, and the other thing, it's very important, that I always repeat, 6% of GDP comes from our evicted Croats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are young people who left rural areas, where they should have dealt with people who were highly educated in all structures and who couldn't find their sun under the roof here because they probably didn't have a political option card to survive. And if we look at this side on all matters, agriculture, we've never imported again, never exported less, never given any more incentives. It's a fact, it's one aspect. Another aspect when we're talking about investing in funds, here's waste management, a very important topic. We'll have to pay for the pens. This harmful project, CGO Lečevica is also a project that is threatened, we will not have down in Split-Dalmatia County where in Split, in Sinj of mine, the imotski end, the Vrgorje end, waste disposal. We haven't protected our key resources, I repeat. The energy where we get our pockets only for wind power plants with renewable sources, we get a billion and a half kunas out of our pockets from these parts of people. We have the potential of our water resources, here we declare IGP that during the SDP, the European Commission then said that we are losing between 160 and 260 million euros annually, which means reaching 2 billion kunas per year. We should have done that a long time ago. These are all our resources and potentials. We have our forests in the Gorski kotar, which is empty, only the raw materials we export. So this money they mention, 24 billion in the seven-year period, is going to pay us a lot more unfortunately the ones we've driven out of Croatia because of the bad policies because we've been going into the EU since we joined the EU, we've gone after 4 million people. And when we look at the truth, regardless of politics, was the bridge, was the SDP, was HDZ, we can, not at all, then we should be telling the truth here and when I hear the praise, mostly when they were predecessors before me, Mr. Pavić, Marijana Petir, the MEP, and when I look, so I don't know if they live in the same state as me. Well, our peasant has moved out and someone else's field is processing our unmodel and we've never imported again. Never imported again. And for us, unsupervised fields. We have only 1% of the irrigated agricultural surfaces, and not 1% of the million and a half hectares, we have 7,000 flooded agricultural surfaces and more water throws out my tributary of the river Cetina than all the sources of Israel combined and these are instructions in the desert. Therefore, let us look the truth into the eyes, organize young people and those capable of providing knowledge, and let us withdraw those resources rather than boredom. 30% of you just withdrew funds and that's embarrassing, we're at the bottom of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26327	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26328	Your Honor, let me just point out how important it is to prepare for certain things in Europe. When we joined the EU, we also had a condition that we had a system to monitor traditional own funds, means to pay customs duties, impose on sugar and VAT and everything else. Mr. Pavic, you know what happened? It happened that in February 2012, someone realized that nothing had been done until then for a project that was due to be completed in July of that year. So in February, it was understood. You've had four years of that... You prepare the project, you have done absolutely nothing, and such projects were seas and then you say the Government of Zoran Milanovic did nothing, so she couldn't do more than what she did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had to do jobs that were a few years late.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26329	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26330	Thank you very much. A number of projects that were to be completed, mainly on issues that should have been done, waste management, waste is not garbage. Waste is jobs, waste is raw materials, and in my Dalmatia it will be a disaster, a Neapolitan scenario. I get tears on my eyes when I see where they're planning it, where all our sources are. Today we have a problem with the Adriatic because of this nerada that Split is behind every little rain a huge Split swimming pool where there is no drinking water due to neglect. And now that they've been pushing that Lecivica project, the center of management, 30 million have been beaten, they haven't done anything, nothing. So absolutely after the waste management they didn't do anything. And of the 2 billion kuna projects you promised three years ago. In a session of the Split government, you achieved nothing, zero ministers, nothing. Well, at least you buried it, I'll bring the machine, I'll bury it, nothing. Is that a shame? And that's true. In Dalmatia, colleagues who haven't done anything in most cases, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26331	Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, it is true that only 10% of the funds were withdrawn from those agreed. However, there were also quality projects as the head of the unit of local administration and self-government from the programme "Wish" for women in the worst years, a variety of different measures since 7.4., and, of course, the fund itself as such. However, what I would like to apostrophe, I do not know how far the Croatian state is within this whole problem is an autonomous way of funding. So, smaller units of local administrations and self-government that have significantly lower fiscal opportunities as such are definitely in any form of realisation of a serious project or God forbid that we are currently in a situation of two capital projects find ourselves in trouble because of 50% of the funds paid in advance, and those remaining 50% should be invested in units of local administration and self-government that most often has a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26333	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26334	The Desire Project is mostly forgotten for women in these parts, such as those that were. “Dalmatin women” workers were mocked as if they were slaves, so for other women who were left behind after the robbery in privatisation, and simply these are people who stayed in those areas to take care of older ones who no longer have their members of young families. So we can watch it one way or the other. But the perspective of survival in these areas is for both young and young and family to stay. So here's the agglomeration problem, Sinj. In the srid channel, a channel flowing, an open channel, in Sinj near the hotel, by the schools goes water, that canal, sewerage, fecal water through Sinj, the centre of Sinj in the river Cetina. And there is the culprit and the water supply of the Cetina region, but also the ministries that are responsible, mainly the Ministry of Environment and Croatian Water, who absolutely don't care what the project is overrated. And here's at least 100 million for that misjudgement. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26335	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Davor Ivo Stier has an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. What we are discussing today is actually the EU's response to the greatest crisis humanity faces since 1929. And indeed this is one deep crisis and the EU's response in one course marks and strengthens our national response to the crisis. The government led one responsible fiscal policy and thus led to this crisis caused by the pandemic virtually eliminated fiscal deficit, but it is clear that now that a time when it must consciously enter the deficit and enter deep into the deficit, there may be if, if you allow me a small digression, perhaps on an ideological basis, one difference between Christian democracy and what some call neoconservatism or neo-oliberalism that opposes any entry or intervention of the state into the economy, there is a Christian democracy in these times of crisis, of course, that the state must intervene to save the economy, in order to save Croatian society as well. So we are talking here and about salaries and pensions and in general about the way our Croatian citizens live. Now, if we go deep into that deficit, of course there's a question and funding of that deficit, and there's two moments that I think are crucial. One has already been mentioned several times, it is an EU membership, without which, of course, today would not have been possible for us to have those EUR 24 billion, which is quite already said. I'd still like a little bit about that structure. So it seems important to point out that in the case of the Republic of Croatia, most of it will still be grants. If we look at the stake, the percentage of GDP is somewhere in these grants somewhere 11%, and if I have seen it well and read the data it seems to me that this is actually the largest percentage of EU member states, so clearly the government has been well placed in negotiations within the EU institutions. But there is another moment that I would like to point out, which seems to me that it is not enough or not at all highlighted today in this debate, which is what the EU is talking about. So, with this answer, we see a strategic commitment to a solid EU, an EU response that is a kind of result and lessons learned from that Eurozone crisis or that big recession in 2008 where much more has come to terms with one, we would say one selfish policy, especially those of the strongest, richest members. Today, however, we see one answer, although there was opposition within the EU about this direction, but still to empower the European Commission to give on behalf of the whole EU, and then using the fiscal capacity of those richest, using the best possible credit rating of those richest that the European Commission can go to financial markets on behalf of the EU as a whole. And that's, of course, something that seems important to me to point out, which is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia which is, and it's pointed out several times today, but I think it should also be highlighted again for our citizens who have had and in this perhaps simplest calculation the benefits of membership that if we looked at how much she paid, how much she got from the European budget in the big plus, is already mentioned somewhere in the falcon of 30 billion kuna. But even more important than that, I think that this direction of solidarity in Europe is the one that helps us the most, so that we can strengthen our statehood, and thus ensure all the rights that Croatian citizens deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26337	Thank you. You've got a few replicas, the first replica asked for Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26338	Thank you. Please answer us if the correct information is that or already the World Bank will be agreed to develop operational programmes for a new financial perspective and if you can also tell us at what stage is the preparation of the operational programmes, how many will we have and who is all engaged in their preparation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26339	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26340	Thank you, colleague. I suppose, of course, if you were operational in the executive board at this point, working on this issue would have the exact information and the correct answer to your question, but I can, of course, inform myself of your colleagues from the government so that they can present it to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26341	Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26342	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. You talked about the importance of Croatia's entry into the EU, you certainly agree that we entered 2004 to have a more comfortable situation now, but since we are certainly not in five or ten years we will be in a better situation, we will have a better review, apply to European funds, and we will certainly bring certain projects to an end. I think that this government led by Prime Minister Plenkovic and here, the present minister, did excellent work on these negotiations and that we can therefore expect a better future. And I just wanted to pollemize you saying, this is where the bad administration is mentioned, and I don't think it's right that we're talking about people doing their job badly, and we're actually saying that we're irreplaceable and infallible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26343	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26344	Thank you, colleague, for that question. I agree with you that the government has made a good point that it has negotiated this package well for the Republic of Croatia. As for administration and the way we withdraw funds, those figures that were mentioned earlier by counterpart Pavić are accurate and we can represent different policies, but these figures are accurate whether we are on the left or on the right or on any side of this Assembly. I just read one piece of information reading and a foreign press saying that in Italy there's the same debate about how much they used and they used funds on the same level as us. The difference is that we are the last member to join the EU, and they are from the very beginning in the EU, and yet this administration has done me a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26345	Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26346	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. So you've just come from the principle of solidarity, as a Christian solidarity where we can say that so far we're only here to support the private sector 8 billion kuna, 600,000 saved places and another two billion package for the first quarter of next year, so 10 billion kuna so far. We consciously enter the deficit, we know that we will, we have participated in negotiations, we know where we will finance it, at the same time credit rating agencies raise or retain the same credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, the government has shown with very responsible fiscal behavior that it can. A good part of this comes from the eu funds, this very number of 30 billion that we are in plus is a clear message of the value of EU membership and that we are finally present in Brussels to play the game and that we are an equal Member State and that we know how to fight for our interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26347	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26348	Thank you, colleague, for that question and comment. What I also wanted to point out in my presentation is the fact that the government led one responsible fiscal policy that led to the very outbreak of this pandemic-induced crisis, and it certainly gave more room for manoeuvre, which is what the rating agencies knew and recognized. However, what you mentioned, the fact that we are an EU member that we know or that the government has well negotiated our position and package that will be available in the Republic of Croatia further opens up the room for manoeuvre and enables of course that we can deal better with this crisis, which is difficult, which is of course challenging for all countries of the world, for all countries of Europe as well as for us, but we certainly have much better tools by being in the EU and much better than we have entered the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26349	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26350	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, you are experienced in the European Parliament, you know these topics of European budgets, tell me how do you explain or how, how, you, your opinion, that there has never been a subsidy in Croatia again here in agriculture and we have never imported food products again? Can you explain where these incentives are going? We see that 2/3 of Croatia is empty, we see that we have 800,000 ha of unprocessed agricultural land, only from one million and a half acres of agricultural land, we have 7,000 ha of irrigated agricultural land, waste management is catastrophic, but the biggest problem for me is, how do you describe from entering the EU to today that Croatia has literally been emptied? How do you describe it with all the praises you've given, how are you going to describe this departure of people and the demographic terrible fall?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26351	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26352	Dear colleagues, as you know, the problems in agriculture did not arise by entering the EU, they were present and some tendencies were there and the difference was that it was mostly financed only from the state budget prior to entry, so Croatia had to or had such a system that it was financed from the state budget and is now financed mainly by the use of EU funds. But if you ask me where one of the elements may be, stressing that I am not an expert on agriculture, but in these discussions, it seems to me that even the European system is changing, and that these incentives may not only be given to major competitors but also to look at greater productivity in both small and medium-sized people and that there is a reform of the EU's common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26353	Thank you. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26354	Thank you. Dear Representative Stier, I wonder if Hungary and Poland are Christians in a democratically solid state? Is Croatia a Christian solidarity with Poland and Hungary's tenacity to despise the rule of law and whether it is the surrounding environment, not the surrounding one, but the Croatian foreign policy governor, will we, in this sense, follow the example of Poland and Hungary in relation to the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26355	Mr. Stier, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26356	Croatia and the Croatian foreign policy as I understand it and support it, of course as part of the ruling majority, is a policy that supports respect for the rule of law, there is absolutely no doubt about it. What you may have alluded is this situation that has been created around both this package and the positions that Poland and Hungary have had and as you know, I think Chancellor Merkel has managed to reach a good deal that has supported all Member States and has supported both the Republic and, in that sense, I think it is a good and constructive decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26357	Thank you very much. Who said that before? Once a minister, always a minister, foreign affairs in this case. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26358	Dear colleague, here you have mentioned exactly the importance of the EU through the prism of solidarity in fact of the EU, and especially now in these COVID conditions 19. I would once again point out how important it is in this context and in helping countries like ours this year, in a specific situation with an earthquake in Zagreb and neighbouring counties and how much this sign of solidarity means and help when it is really necessary to raise, create conditions for the lives of people who have damaged apartments and houses and, in addition, this economic crisis that has further complicated the fact that life and work and income of every Croatian citizen are uncertain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26359	Thank you, ma'am. It's a feather. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26360	Thank you, dear colleague. Indeed, the answer of the EU and the natural disaster that the city of Zagreb and neighbouring counties have experienced is one proof of this solidarity, probably not of this pandemic, it would be in greater size and intensity, but we have and we must face all together with this pandemic and the economic crisis that has been caused and what you have mentioned and on this trail we are all more than all of us from our club but also from some other political options, too, which is that thanks to our membership in the EU, we have much stronger instruments and tools today that we can deal more successfully with these challenges.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26361	Thank you. And the last replica, Mr. Hajdukovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26363	No, no, don't forgive Mr. Hajdukovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26364	I know I'm risking a warning, but I have some things to say. We're talking about 24 billion euros from the recovery funds. Let's not forget that there's actually truths spreading here because these funds have been allocated exclusively to the weakest of the systems. So, the weakest most, and it has nothing to do with this government's negotiations, but we only get those funds because of that, the weakest one along with Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26365	You don't risk a warning, you get it, and you get one warning, and you actually get two because you hurt two things, you don't specify an article, and you have a replica, but you're going to get one. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26366	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Stier, you mentioned in this when you spoke more about political philosophy, state intervention yes or no in what extent, I think we can agree now, regardless of the world-wide differences that there was no dilemma of intervention here at all, yes or no, here it was necessary to avoid much, much greater consequences for the economy. I would also like to make it absolutely clear when we talk about administrations and shortcomings, we are not talking about people who are not doing their job, but we are talking about a small percentage of people who know and can quality say that the state invests in them, and that at the moment most likely because they are not adequately paid, when they are trained mainly to go to private waters, they do not stay in that state administration and administration that should plan and withdraw those funds. It's not a small and unprovoked job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26367	Thank you, colleague, for that matter and observation. Indeed, as far as the role of the state in these crises is concerned, there is no dilemma here from the aspect of Christian democracy that it is necessary for the state to engage, intervene, respecting the principles of the market economy, and knowing that this intervention is short-term sampled by the crisis, not that the state would advance and that the state’s apparatus has increased indefinitely. But as far as this establishment of yours is concerned, of course, it can always be better. We may have missed the opportunity after we completed negotiations to make better use of all people who worked on accession negotiations that they remained engaged and later in project planning, perhaps it was one missed opportunity, but now we have the opportunity to really take advantage of this new package that is available to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26368	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. The next debate is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26369	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like once again to confirm what we need to talk about, and this is this new decision and the system of own resources of the Union, which must provide adequate means for orderly development of the EU's policies, and provided that there is strict budgetary discipline and rules that will take place and finance all these projects. What should certainly be pointed out in particular that we are indeed the last country to enter the EU and not wanting to undermine any previous actions, previous governments, etc., the period from 2014-2020 was the period of learning the use of European funds. Certain normative frameworks had to be set which we once had to admit and were not high enough or too demanding as if in one way we were creating curtailed frameworks that neither our entrepreneurs nor the units of local and regional self-government were able to use. There have been a lot of obstacles and, therefore, in this previous period, the previous governments have just achieved a lot in the way that this legislative framework has been corrected and the fact is that out of 9% of the agreed funds, over 108% of the contracted funds have now been paid, and this is the latest data of 42% of the agreed funds, thus progress has been made. What we are certainly all interested in at what speed and quality we will continue to do, and that is what we need to worry about further. And I expect exactly when it comes to 24 billion we have to separate that 12.8 billion is from the multi-annual financial framework and these funds are 85%, the national share is exactly the rest of it up to 100%, and that's the quality of those funds that are very much available to us. In particular, these funds that come from the New Generation's funds that we thus have the possibility of about 50% grants, and 50% are approximately favourable loans. Therefore, all these instruments will certainly mean a great deal to us and to the Government, which has the greatest responsibility for exactly the national recovery and resilience programme, which will thus raise the level and use of EU funds, and also channel in those activities, in those economic activities that will contribute to our development. I spoke earlier about exactly what level of development reached the Republic of Croatia by 2008 compared to the EU average, which was about 64%. At the time of the crisis, it fell to 60% with the increase by 2019 and in 2019 respectively, so it reached a level of 65% of the EU average, and now the target, which is the next 10% points up to 75%, is very important to take big and significant steps to achieve this, and this is the level of Slovakia now in the current situation. That is why when we talk about all this, it is also important to highlight these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26370	The next final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, Commissioner Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26371	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Today, we have heard mostly only beautiful information about European funds, only what we will potentially be able to use and we have heard a lot of thanks about how we took advantage of this financial perspective. But I think and I don't want to say here that nothing was right and that nothing was done absolutely not and I also want to point out that really this was our first financial perspective and that in the first financial perspective the results of all the Member States were actually relatively bad. But when we talk about the financial perspective we are still in, we need to talk with more self-critics, not to pour ashes, but to know what was wrong and to make it right, and we didn't talk about it here. So what we're saying here is that we have an extremely high percentage of project arrangements, irrelevant information. The relevant information is how much of it we spent and how these costs were certified, so we know that we really used them. You know how much? 35%. These are data from structural funds.hr. ... What? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] 32, 31.10. these are your last data on the pages, I watched today, certified costs. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, and we barely strained that with the change between the OSs in the OPC because we failed to use the funds that were for both the essential infrastructure and the environmental infrastructure and the transport infrastructure, etc. What did we use from the environment? We used funds in terms of infrastructure for the construction of waste management centres that were actually done in a way that did not predict reducing mixed municipal waste in the coming years because we didn't actually invest in decommissioning on the threshold, or in recycling systems, so we assume that we will have the same amount of municipal waste in the years to come. Furthermore, what we didn't hear here today, why we got the most funding from the RRF or the possibility of using from... ? Well, because we have the worst indicators in the EU, so let's be honest. What were the criteria? So you know what the criteria were, the population times the number of unemployed times GDP, per capital. Well, I think we know what happened, so we got Bulgaria the most, so we know why. Not because our prime minister is a hell of a negotiator, but because our indicators are bad. What else haven't we heard? We have not heard here that it is evident that our plan for recovery and resilience will be among the last to be delivered. We also did not hear the information that the European Commission, it seems to me, and I am asking for an answer to this, clearly communicated to Croatia that we cannot count on the resources from the REACT-EU Recovery Fund until it is spent, without spending allocation for 2014-2020, where the European Commission is not only asking to spend but rather to see the effects of the measures. How do we prove the effects of the measures? We are now doing a midterm evaluation for the operational programme of human potential, for the PKK I hope the same is done, but the midterm is not final, we can't even finish doing it yet. I'm curious about how we're going to prove the spending of the funds and the effects of the measures if we still don't have those indicators, and what does that mean when we can start using the funds or when we expect them to come from the Recovery Fund? I also want an answer to the question whether the World Bank has been agreed again to do programming for 2021-2027, it has been agreed for 32 million to work on a national development strategy, we have seen what we have obtained as a result. I wonder when the operational programs are expected to be completed. And most important thing, why is that information important? Not so we can ask or criticize you. Well, cities and municipalities because you've raised expectations for them, saying constantly about these billions, they expect these funds to be seen and won by the next year, and you won't, and you have to tell them that we've also taken off income taxes without getting what you said would be compensation. Tell them when the funds are due in 2022, 2023? [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26372	Next final debate on behalf of the Most Independent Lists, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26373	Here's the final debate all day we've been discussing an important topic, and we as people's representatives need to question the government about this important, important component, but I'm going to give it a parallel right now. So Croatia will pay in the future 4.6 billion kunas of its membership fee, so it is an increase by a billion kuna in seven years 24 billion will come to Croatia if we do as we did in the previous budget period, then one 30 percent of these projected funds will come so that we will pay far more than we will pay back, than we will invest in Croatia because our obvious truth is difficult, but we will hear it. So Croatia withdrew 35% during the current budget period. And how much was agreed on, how much did my colleague Peric say? More than Slobodan Milosevic won the election in Serbia, 108% seem to me agreed, 108% agreed. How much has now been withdrawn at the end of the budget period, and these projects must be completed by 2023.? Do you have any idea how much agglomeration we're going to need to have of the collapse that protects the rivers, the springs of water? What about waste management? However, I would only find here, because of the bad policies of the same annual deposit of ours that we have moved out and who have gone to other countries in the wake of the GDP, just as much as it is a year to withdraw from the eu funds if we use everything 100%. There's so much demographic breakdown of the Republic of Croatia because of the bad policies. We need to change urgently, transform, model, roll up the sleeves, sample all the fields, irrigate all the fields. Only 1% and 1% of our agricultural areas are irrigated, 1%, 7,000 hectares, i.e. Less 0.5% and then the prime minister is here when he proposes what he would do when he became prime minister, that he said he would double, double the irrigation. So from 7,000 hectares, it's going to be 14,000 hectares of a million-and-a-half acres of agricultural land. So that someone really comes from Israel and sees that these rivers are clean, clear, my Cetina, Zrmanja, Krka that we don't protect and don't protect as potential, water is key, drinking water is potential and we have to protect it, we're not self-sufficient. And if they came from the side and they saw that the Sinj field was not irrigated through the srid of the Cetina field flows the river, I mean, it's a disaster. Waste management is chaoticly mainly in Split-Dalmatia County chaotic, chaos. We're in a state of chaos. Bad projects, harmful projects such as CGO Lečevica, Lečevica Waste Management Centre, but also others and Marinščina and everyone else, you first planned on the junk, on top of the debris means the area where we have caves, natural pits, speleologists proven that will pollute our sources. Jadro already has problems, Split already has problems. So we have current key issues. Our key resources are energy, it's to the harm of the people through the subsidy to us a billion-and-a-half-dollar muse. We have banks that have four billion kunas a year through commissions and fees of the same muse not... in the Republic of Croatia, which is why it was supposed to be the first move by brave Prime Minister Plenkovic to come here to spread towards banks, the moratorium on interest and loans for a year. Amen. We have money that people will spend on what they have... they're solvable or our citizens are full of pockets, they're not investing in Croatia, they're investing in other countries where our people with our money are making other countries, our table. That's why we have a dead literally extinct village. Why, why never again encourages, never less production? I'm listening to Mariana Petir I'm surprised we live in the same country, she says she lives in the country. I don't know which one? I know which village she's in, but I don't know how she sees it through which glasses she sees it. So we have to turn the whole story around to be self-sufficient. 3.5 billion euros in food imports, it's a disaster. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26374	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Vice-President, Mr Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26375	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Just in the end, I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. As I was saying at the outset, I think it has also proved to be a good idea and a good proposal was made by the government that such a decision is of paramount importance for the next seven years of functioning, EU funding and all member states are not just staying at the government level but rather to take it first to HS and to discuss it. As was expected, as was the case until the present time, the largest part of the discussion, regardless of what this decision refers to, therefore, to the EU's own funds, so we have led more to the EU's revenue side of the budget, so what we as Member States are pulling back and using for individual projects, which is both understandable and reasonable and realistic to expect, and that is what I think is very good. A good part of the debate on both sides and on both sides was how and how, among other things, to strengthen our absorption, or even better and even more meaningful use of these funds. You have well recognised that unlike a multi-annual financial framework where more or less we've already said the good part and stalked, but always of course the space for improvement can be. As for the "EU New Generation" we have 100% resources, so we have resources that do not require national co-financing on the principles where you have to run projects and reforms among other things, so this is what is extremely important, resilience and recovery, investment-related recovery, whether private or public, resistance is primarily related to reform, so it is again shown in the really recent recent, in less or slightly over a decade, two major global crises are, the one that originally occurred in the financial sphere, and it has changed over to all segments of the economy, and let's say the one that we currently have, which first went to its focal point from the health epidemiological segment, but has also crossed over to the economic and financial sphere. So, as many macro-economicists and economists say, the crisis is again ahead of us, it is only a matter of when and in which sphere and therefore it is important that the resilience of the economies of European and individual countries, and I think that we in Croatia have learned many lessons on our skin, we must do everything to be as resilient as possible. A brief reference to these questions, therefore, comes appeals, proposals, various institutions are offered primarily by international multilateral agencies with which we have long-term cooperation including the World Bank, including the IMF and the European Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development and others, with them we have a continuous dialogue with them, but we can thus say the ownership of Croatian authorities, we are running it, so their help is more than welcome, in the private segments, but as regards preparation and the document itself, I also said in the introduction, we did one of our internal organization, the Prime Minister is personally involved in this, his office, my office in terms of the Ministry of Finance but also all the resolutions, here and yesterday we had some internal meetings, not delay in sending documents because the deadline for sending the national recovery programme is the end of 4. In the same package, we will send all Member States a national reform programme, a convergence programme and a national recovery programme with the same date. Until that moment all this time will take consultations where we will naturally test each other in terms of preliminary draft versions of these documents and ultimately, get answers to the question whether or not we will say anything, at all possible candidate for certain funds. Our around idea, of course, is that I would say, quite reasonable, I am sure that you will accept and welcome it in some way, to focus first and foremost on grants, first and foremost of all, of the new generation of the EU, because it is somewhat shorter in terms of the time frame and the multiannual financial framework in terms of the seven-year perspective, but also, let's not ignore this fact that I was talking about today, which we referred to in the debate. The EU has maintained its triple A rating and all the funds it manages to borrow and which it wants to borrow in international world markets are on the most favourable terms and will also be transferred to countries, so that this part of the loans, regardless of what debt you have to repay, will again be on the best terms, but focus, of course, on grants, on which we place the greatest emphasis. I will repeat once again, with all due respect, here I am now talking in the final word about the distribution of funds, the usability of funds and different types of theirs, but today's decision was among other things, and I think we have also succeeded, whoever listened or watched this session or today's debate, to get closer, to get closer or a little closer to explaining the income side of the European budget, the system of own resources. There have been very good parallels and with the past and we know well, since 1970, when a system has been introduced, every perspective or in almost every perspective, it has experienced some kind of revision, and in this too, but it is very important to repeat once again, no matter what a new category of unrecycled plastics will enter, that it does not mean any new tax, some new imposition, it is accounted for and accounted for by the same methodology for all Member States, for the same amount I said just a little while ago exactly how much they amounted to the structure will be reduced the distribution of each country and so the Republic will, based on gross national income, by the same principle and the talks will nevertheless continue to be conducted on digital taxation, some other forms of taxes that will live, and I may not be in this, certainly in some future perspective, in terms of which revision of the systems of its own resources. It's good for the citizens to hear, that we all get to know each other together, those 4 to 4.5 billion kunas that are about the level, the next 3 years are what we pay from the budget, what we're planning in the state budget, we've already voted on it, you voted after the debate, we've voted on the budget for the next 4 years, all of these amounts, all of these figures we've already predicted there, this part of how much we're going to withdraw, certainly depends first and foremost on the greatest work on us. Quality preparation of projects by re-absorbing, for the EU of new generations with projects, will be key to reforms. So this one synergy between one segment and another which I am sure that when we speak and we know the economic and social situation in the Republic of Croatia is more than obvious that it is necessary as such. Here, I finally thank you, but I can see there are a lot of replicas, so here, I'll try and answer them all together, anyway, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26376	All right, we've got replicas, the first distinguished representative is Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26377	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, you said well, we're a little more focused today in the debate on the amount, but perhaps to sum up a few other very important concepts for Croatia. First, during the Croatian presidency, so-called free corona response invesment initiative and 3+ regulation, which already allows 100% refund and... So we are already getting 100% which makes a significant contribution to the stability of public finances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, we managed to fight along with other friends of cohesion, 15% of the national co-financing rate, should have been 30%. We also fought along with other countries of friends of cohesion at M+3. Therefore, many of these are components that will be important in the next 10 years for the absorption of funds, not only these EUR 24.2 billion, which we are proud to have succeeded in withdrawing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26378	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26379	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's a good thing that you've all been together and reminded us that this crown is so much, I would say striking and deep, and then we're almost, I won't forget it, but it seems like it was a very, very long time ago, but in the first half of this year, really, it was Croatia that chaired the EU Council for the first time and, among other things, when we see other countries of the European institutions, despite the very, very difficult circumstances and the fact that it was the first time that we did and did a really good job. And you know very well with all that you've said, I'd just like to add one more important initiative which for our chairmanship, among other things, has been done, and that was the first package that we're talking about today, and that was the combination of the European Stability Mechanism, so this ISM, the Pan-European Guarantee Fund of the European Investment Bank, but also everything that was somehow framed with this well-known Shore Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26380	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26381	Thank you. Well, it is true that the issue of handing over plans on the same date will be closed, but we have received information, we have directly called Task Ford for Resiliens and some countries have already submitted whole plans, some have handed over chatters, and some have handed over only outsides, and the fact is that we are certainly not among those who have handed over the whole plans. But that's not a question. What my question is is, is it true that the European Commission has conditioned us to use RRF funds with consumption, consumption, so the funds from this financial perspective and if the percentage of the spending of funds is involved and where do you expect the first RRF and ACT-EU funds to come to Croatia, what year, what year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26382	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26383	Thank you very much. It's not exactly that information. So the dialogue that exists with the European Commission has been continued and is very correct, co-operative, however it does not connect, linking EU New Generation funds with the existing perspective. The best example of this is that we will receive some funds from the RECT-EU according to our estimates during 2021. We have already planned these funds in the budget this year, among other things, as in terms of financing those measures that we have already put into office. As far as the RFF is concerned, or... in terms of resilience and recovery, we've said that before. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] After 4 months when all countries send, 2 to 3 months will continue to be evaluated by the European Commission, the European Council, probably Parliament will say something about this, so we do not expect all together to be activated before the end of next year. However, we know for sure 10% of the advance will be paid in 2021, the European Parliament has even recently proposed that the advance be 20%, for Croatia the 10% is EUR 600 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26384	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26385	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. 2015 Croatia was ahead of the measures of the excessive deficit of our budget. How much stability of the current budget and budget surplus has brought the EU's trust in Croatia, and did this trust then also cause this financial trust to us in this amount of subsidy, or is it as we hear from the opposition by chance and because we are the worst?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26386	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26387	Thank you very much. Trust as well as in any other human relationship has long been built, but it is easily lost, right, we know that and I think that just about our credibility and the trust we have, not only the EU visas and European institutions, but other international agencies and institutions as well as investors themselves. This is ultimately the best indicator of the credit rating that we have here despite all the circumstances we manage to defend and keep still in the investment zone. I will briefly use this time and on your replica something I forgot to say in the final word. Many years ago, when we still had this negotiation, Chapter 33 asked us to start administrative units, he says in English, a unit that will deal with its own resources. Many then suggested establishing a new agency. At the time, Minister Shuker and I were the State Secretary, and we decided that this unit would be inside the Ministry of Finance, and I will commend it this way because today it is working and the people who are doing a fantastic job there and the same on the basis of what you're talking about have gained great trust from the European Commission all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26388	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26389	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, among other things, you said we've learned a lot of lessons so far. I hope that we have learned a lot of lessons and that we all have one and the same goal of withdrawing almost all resources or as much resources as possible, so now we would appeal that when we agree on what projects or programming envelopes are that we do not forget that building a municipal infrastructure is exactly the construction of a sewer system, we now have a list of 200% of the values available and many other projects that are also high-level prepared to put such projects in priority and that they can work in the next period in order to withdraw as much funds as possible, and we must also not forget that our protection of the sea and water must be one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26390	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26391	Thank you well-respected MPs on your replica, or comment. Of course we'll take that into account and take care of it, but we're taking care of it now. You know very well, therefore, that our national policy priorities are certainly very compatible with what we hear and what we see from these EU documents. So, what we can say along with this quite often apostrophysed both introspectively and during the debate green and digitally exists very much, of course, where we will parallelly, at a national level, so particularly important and at a local level, take steps. Our intention is, of course, national and local levels as large as possible, anything available to us and to the private sector. You know very well that during these talks and negotiations, some countries were rather keenly opposed to having any funds heading towards the private sector, however, the majority in which we belonged also prevailed, so we will also be taking care of that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26392	And the last replica of the distinguished representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26393	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, let me point out from my experience, one in my opinion, an important fact and I believe that this is exactly how successful and the amount of money withdrawn from the EU funds has made it possible to introduce, in my opinion, a fund for the even development of Croatia, which is, I will stress here the fact from 1993 to 2018, we did not have such generous support for local self-government. In this way we get the opportunity of all municipalities, all cities, all cities, all counties in the Republic of Croatia for even development and I want to thank you, of course, Prime Minister, but especially you as Minister and your team because that fact is and this situation now gives us the opportunity for all of us to develop evenly. This is the case of a small town, an island that has a population of 6,300. 238 million kunas we have projects so far in realisation. It never happened before or would have happened. If it hadn't been for this. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26394	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26395	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, you've recognized it well, it was one of the main intensities, intent, and ultimately it turns out to be a good move, and these amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and all that we do exactly in terms of more balanced regional development. The idea was from the very beginning to strengthen fiscal capacity to use at local level, units of local and regional self-government as much as possible and financially and fiscally as possible, of course, as much EU funds as possible, for those purposes that are, above all, for this local, municipal and in-in infrastructure. And that's exactly what I think we should continue to do and you know well, we've recently passed the law, we've been in effect for a few days, over two weeks, which, among other things, will not only for the next year but permanently systematically, the budgets of local self-government will be increased. And finally, here is, for the last 5 seconds, that key message, regardless of what we talked about on our own funds, on one kuna or on one euro, our payments to the EU budget, 5 kuna or 5 euro are available. Let's be smart, let's use it in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26396	Here, this concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following item of the agenda is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Explosive Substances Act, production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z. No. 43.; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 43. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. Article 172 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26399	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, and the Honorable Mr. Representatives. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosive Substances and the Production and Transport of Weapons is before you, the final proposal. The law was discussed in the first reading last month, the conclusion was reached on November 11th that the law was referred to the applicant in the draft law. I would like to remind you that this law regulates the area of production, storage, transport, research, testing and evaluation of the conformity and use of explosive substances and production, transport, transport, marking, marking and disarmament and retailing of pyrotechnic means and weapons. This law, therefore, and the amendments to it before you, was therefore necessary to amend it in order to comply with two new arms directives. These are the EU Implementing Directive of 16 January 2019 laying down technical specifications for the labelling of firearms and its essential parts, in accordance with the 1991 Council Directive on the control, supply and possession of weapons. The second Commission Implementing Directive is also, on the same date, 16 January 2019 laying down technical specifications for alarming and signalling weapons, which are required by Member States to ensure that the weapons or devices designed to alert, signal or save lives are subject to verifications in order to establish their compliance with the technical specifications set out in the Annex to this Directive. The key is that such a weapon could not be converted into a firearm. In accordance with those Directives, it is necessary to establish a competent authority to control the compliance of alerting and signalling devices with technical specifications and to prescribe the obligation to exchange information on the results of these checks with other EU Member States. In addition, it is necessary to appoint a national contact point for the exchange of such information, and this law proposes that the Ministry of Interior carry out this harmonisation check and that the Ministry of Interior will also be a contact point, a national contact point, to exchange the results of checks with other Member States. The verification procedure itself and the technical specifications will be laid down in the Regulation to be adopted within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Given the high pressure of the public to completely prohibit the sale, supply, possession and use of firecrackers and directors of category F2, and I recall that according to the provisions of the Directive on pyrotechnic means, pyrotechnic assets are classified in two categories, category F2 and F3, and the provisions of the 2017 law already prohibit the sale, purchase and use of firecrackers and monks in category 3. Thus, this law proposes a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers and directors to citizens, so categories F-2 and F-3. I will also remind myself that the pyrotechnics that are classified in category F-1, therefore at least dangerous for the health and safety of people, animals and property, is, its sale has been allowed throughout the year, both in specialized shops and in wholesale shops. They're the least dangerous, I say, like sprinklers, those frogs, so something that doesn't make big noise or hurt those who use them. I'll also remind you that pyrotechnics vendors can have goods in their stores where up to 30 kg of net pyrotechnic mass, which is if we look at gross packaging roughly corresponds to about 300 kg of gross. Also, a citizen who purchases pyrotechnics within the legal period does not spend it within the deadline provided for between 27 December and 1 January will not, therefore, be able to keep that pyrotechnic mass legally prescribed, but must not use it until a new period of application, so until 27 December. So, for the purchase itself and for not being able to spend eventually it will not be punished, but it must not be used outside the prescribed deadlines. Although it's been over the last 3 years. Since the entry into force of a law prohibiting the use of funds in category F-3, a significantly smaller number of injured citizens have been recorded since the use of pyrotechnic means mainly since the use of firecrackers. I note that the monks consist of a series of related firecrackers so that they produce much larger and more noise, but of course the explosion and are potentially much more dangerous. But according to the M.O.P. data, they're still the most frequent injuries to the wound are people under 18. and small children who are prohibited from selling and using pyrotechnic means of category F-2 and F-3 under the applicable provisions of the law. So, to minors, that's and now forbidden, we now forbid, we propose to ban the sale of category F-2 to everyone. Therefore, even though the sale of pyrotechnic assets is prohibited only by minors, so from 15 December to 1 January, use is allowed from 27 December to 1 January, numerous reports of the abuse of firecrackers and monks from minors who should not or should not be used, and therefore within the time limits when the use of such funds is normally permitted, often being used both outside the prescribed time period and outside the place where such funds are prohibited. In view of all of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a legislator of the law in order to protect the lives and health of people with special emphasis on the protection of children, as well as on the protection of property, and the welfare of animals on demand and with the support of the general public alongside the already mentioned bans on firecrackers and orderlies of category 3, F-3 proposes also to ban the sale of firecrackers and monks from category F-2 to citizens as their possession and use. This does not apply to legal persons, trades and associations that can continue to obtain this pyrotechnic for their activities, e.g. Assumptions, HGSS and other authorised uses, they can obtain them in the use of F-2 and F-3 firecrackers. Since the proposed law will now and obviously take effect in this period when it has already started selling, we recall it started yesterday, and respecting the requirements of the entrepreneurs involved in these activities to extend the period of application of the provisions on the prohibition of pyrotechnic assets which the law proposes that provisions relating to the prohibition of firecrackers and directors of category F-2 enter into force on 2 January 2021, so that what is before us is allowed to buy and use pyrotechnic means not to go beyond the provisions of the law currently in force. Therefore, to avoid jeopardising business activities, pyrotechnic means have long been obtained and paid and imported. However, their proposal to extend this period until 2023 has not been accepted, so we are prolonging for this season, but thus ending the sale of such funds in the Republic of Croatia. I note that the import of these funds for export to third countries in which it is allowed to use this pyrotechnic is still possible and our entrepreneurs can do so freely in accordance with their business plans. I repeat, public support was great in eliminating the F-2 pyrotechnics, so that during the period when consultation with the public interest was conducted, out of a total of 791 comments received, even 750 were related to the ban on firecrackers of category R2 and in a very large, large majority of support for that ban. For the period from 15.12.2019.-8.1.2020.g. I will remind you once again that 14 people have been injured since the use of pyrotechnics, two minors, two minors have been injured more seriously, as one minor, and the other six children have been and the elderly have been injured more easily than these funds. For the sake of comparison of the firecrackers of these categories, R2 and F3 are also prohibited in Austria, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland. Dear MPs and MPs, as you could see in the final draft of the law, we explained the remarks we accepted, especially those we did not accept. We accepted all those who go after more security and did not want to put any further burden on our entrepreneurs' new obligations. What's done is done solely to protect those most endangered. I would like to remind you that all the comments of the HS Legislative Committee have been accepted, they have been of nootechnic nature, and the proposal of the legislator Matula to take part in the article. On the 14th and 15th final draft of the law, the deadline for reporting suspected arms transactions has been reduced from 15 days to 24 hours, I think it was justified and we have also completed provisions concerning the use of temporary civilian shooting sites because it, as it says, serves for the most part in a year and we have been focusing on the security aspects of this civilian shooting range, the temporary civil range, and not on which it is located in the room or area. So, quarrys always remain quarrys are important for security purposes, and it can be anywhere, where it can't endanger other people. Since these responses to remarks that we have not adopted anymore, I would not be able to explain them all in detail within the scheduled time period, but I repeat once again, until when these funds already obtained could be used by January 2nd next year, could not be extended to longer. The funds can also be made to other countries, so what is potentially unsold can be sold to others. There were a lot of questions as to whether this law would bring to major illegal imports of such funds, that is, such action punishable, it is prescribed by this law as well as other regulations, but it is very difficult to introduce the forbidden or perhaps it can be introduced but it is difficult to use such pyrotechnics because it produces quite a loud shot and such a person would be detected very quickly and would be subject to the law of the sanctions provided for. Here is the aim of the motion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue to enable the safe use of weapons and pyrotechnics by this law. I remind you that this law applies to legal persons, businesses, crafts, associations, etc., special law, the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, as regards citizens, here is the new law in force from 1 November 2018. in line with the relevant European directives, that the use of pyrotechnic means of which a good part of them is not so if professional handling is not dangerous for citizens, that they are in accordance with the law to continue and that what has proved to lead to human suffering and animal harassment to prohibit it. We believe that very soon Christmas and New Year's holidays in the Republic of Croatia will be more peaceful and pleasant. There have been some remarks that these deadlines are still reduced, here only in the end to say, so it's possible to use these funds for six days, and to reduce the time limit. We didn't decide to do that, we left the same deadlines that were in force because cutting sales time from these 15 days to four, five days in those premises would be a lot more people, and that's what we think, not only because of this current situation of epidemiology but otherwise, that it would be much more risky. So it's impossible to sell that amount of goods in so few days. We will monitor the situation in our country as well as in other countries, and we will adjust these deadlines to what is best suited to Croatian citizens if necessary. Thank you very much for your attention, and if there are any questions I'm willing to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26400	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26401	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. By implementing and implementing this Regulation and by this law, the MUP will become a reference point i.e. In a way, an inspection body related to these subjects for signalling and saving lives, so I'm wondering how it's going to be checked? It's going to be something periodical, or is it just going to be on the supply itself, and is that even going to be a cost to end-users of such items? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26402	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26403	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. This job will be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior within its regular activities, will collect these data and, in the event that a particular device or weapon has a clue in some supply or use in another country, it will exchange data with the relevant Member States. As I said, the verification process itself and the technical specifications will be prescribed with a special regulation already in place because it must be brought and published within 30 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26404	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26405	Thank you, Vice President of HS, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, as you have already pointed out, has given unanimous support to this law which I consider to be good. Every higher or higher level of protection of our citizens is welcome, especially when we talk about underage persons, and the most pyrotechnics are right in the hands of our youngest. We therefore believe that this is welcome, however, we are a member of the EU, and you have listed 10 countries that seek to protect that higher. So any citizen of ours can buy that pyrotechnic in one of the EU members and then, do we have a solution to that? You understand? One is imports from Serbia or BiH, and the other is when you buy legally in an EU member country where it is sold legally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26406	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26407	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Therefore, the use of these funds by us is prohibited, imports of such funds are also prohibited, so category F2 which has been allowed so far and, if someone enters it, I repeat, it is prohibited to use it. In case of use of such funds, of course and will be checked and where they came from, citizens will be sanctioned. We have therefore informed citizens, employers who import pyrotechnics and those who have been aware of the proposed amendments to the law for a year and a half since the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26408	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? ... Don't you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we'll take a break now because we have to for epidemiological reasons, 15 minutes, so we'll continue at 15.20 hours. It's 3:06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26409	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.28 HOURS]] We're glad you accepted our proposal, our remark on those 15 days that it still comes down to 24 hours. But I will, however, bring back our other remarks here or perhaps bring some new reasons here and suggestions because I would like to stress that for us in the Green-Left Block Club, all security issues, and especially such sensitive issues, very dangerous things like explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons for us in the Green-Left Block Club, these are very important issues that should be left in the hands of the state or for this authorized public institutions and, of course, by the principle that exclusive monopoly on the use of force, the use of force can have only a state, and each of these, any such application of force and violence must be very much of, from the state supervised and from civil society, of all of us because it is the only way that we have security and that we have maximum, maximum human rights and applied. So I'm going to move on like this, one thing that we don't understand why we don't accept that question in law to solve the issue of weapons rental for two reasons. One is that it would really be possible for some cases to take a rent, but if that's how you use the rent question then it can be an excuse, so we can see that someone avoids that it wasn't a gun sale, but that's simply a rental. Also, I'm going to ask you that later under the following article, that's what I think there's about Art. 41st is about handovers in other places, sales, surrenders. Now, if this sale is one good gun sale, it's clear, but surrender, there it is, talking about a legal person, a craftsman or an association. Now I'm interested, I can't understand now that a legal person if I've decided to, I'm interested, I have a trophy Kalashnikov home, and now I've finally decided to hand it over to this one, in that sense of surrender, but then it shouldn't, I don't know which legal person, then I don't teach the craft or, or the association, which is why this is what's bothering me with that surrender. Okay, we'll talk about it. In any case, we suggest that this is very clearly regulated, so that we also define illegal trade that, we think, we also need to include the word "rent". Furthermore, on the subject of professional training for working with explosive substances, this is what we still think is that, apart from the ministries and specialised public institutions, other legal persons should not carry out professional training. And in the last debate, we insisted on it because we simply don't see why and in, which is why, on a sensitive and important issue like this, why training to work with explosive substances would lead us to a space of privatisation, simply so that people in the security sector can further train others and that I think we get a lack of effective control mechanisms on these activities. And here we see the possibility of training people who could use explosive means to harm society, it seems too obvious to us that some extremist group that we have on the networks, which this one openly calls for violence and that now such a privateer goes with them and teaches them to produce explosives and make explosives. That, we think, must only be state and public institutions from the countries that are licensed to do so. We still don't think it's too much to rock, it's in art. The 7th Amendment to Article 3, that we are asking that this article be deleted. We're completely unsupervised, irresponsible to be four years old. who wrote there with the possibility of an extension every 4 years, we think the one who got the license still needs it every 4 years. Check his condition. Now, here we are, especially when doctors, doctors and psychiatrists tell us that, that the increasingly dangerous situation is because of this covid. We think these people who are involved in the sale of weapons or explosive devices that they have to be every four years. Rechecked and let's see if they've gone into any groups in the meantime, and maybe that's what this news agency is telling us about. I mean, anyway, they should be every 4 years. Checked. So that's what I've already told you. In the case of the need for national security and the security of citizens, it could be easier to determine who the legal person was dealing with. So we suggest that the legal person, craft or association of art. In 34th of this law, it is required to keep records of the sale or handover of firearms, to keep records or ammunition, and to have a record form issued by the Ministry, and then in that case, well, I'm not going to go into those details right now, so we're going to hand over the amendments. Amendment 6 that we have in this is required for the owner of the weapon to change, the... ministry changes. That's what I'm going to remind you of, which we've already insisted on for the purpose of encouraging weapons owners to disarm weapons, that this cost of incapacitation must be taken over by the ministry. If, say, some association of defenders has a trophy weapon and it's not safe and she sees it herself in case someone or some younger ones come in right now and go to that shooting range so they can get hurt, if they don't have enough money anyway, if they decide to destroy it, I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be us as a ministry or a state to not destroy it, it's completely unclear to me. Why now they have to do it on their own, if they've decided to disable the weapon, so what good fortune to disable, especially dangerously bad weapons. Also, the question of where we see the space of weapons abuse or ammunition seized in the administrative procedure, then some explained to me that it can also be applied to sports. No, sports can't be an excuse for that. I understand that some sports companies that have both firearms and are competing or... that there may be some questions, but it can't be an excuse that if someone was messing with guns and if that weapon was taken away, I don't see why that weapon wouldn't be destroyed. What is that worth now or who, only that the state is doing business with it, but that it's being given to someone else or that it's being left to him, I don't understand it, and we don't understand that we're consulting about it. And yes, at the end of what you said we will continue to insist that we really understand these arguments that you said, that in one place, but it can be arranged so that it is not dangerous and we are convinced if it is shorter that the smaller people will be forced to go shopping, especially this stronger pyrotechnic, we think it's quite enough to keep the practice to shoot, to reduce that shooting deadline and this deadline for purchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26410	Next debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26411	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Today, in this final draft of the law, we will align it once more, with the EU directives with two directives more precisely, and it is absolutely not controversial. But let me begin this presentation just as I did in November when we had this amendment in our first reading. Damir Novak, many of the names will not ring immediately, Damir Novak was a famous Croatian musician, an opera singer in Zagreb, and at the very old year 2000 he went for a walk in Zagreb's Dubrovnik evening when he was hit by a stray abandoned bullet that someone fired during the celebration. Unfortunately, Damir died only seven days after the injuries sustained that were too severe, and the perpetrator was never found and it is clear that there was not much the police could do or could not determine from which direction the fatal bullet came from, let alone who fired him. Large quantities of weapons and ammunition and today are owned by many in this country. Although we as Croats have a fantastic military history that we admire even though Napoleon said give me 10,000 Croats and I will conquer the world, even though we inherit a fantastic victory in the Homeland War, the fact is that we have too many illegal weapons, so that we have one single piece too. So once again from this pay phone, there are all MPs and MPs of the Homeland Movement, I am sure on behalf of all of us in this House, I appeal to all those who still possess illegal weapons, ammunition or any explosive device or part of military equipment to return it to the nearest police station as soon as possible, and the existing laws allow them to do so anonymously and without any administrative obstacles or penalties. Let's just remember an article in a daily newspaper a few months ago in which a journalist in just a few days without any problems using social networks came into possession of automatic weapons, popular Kalashnikov on the black market for only 300 euros. The journalist has done a great research job, and we are left with bitter knowledge that there is so little money in just a few days in Croatia can come up with a deadly weapon which, unfortunately, we have recently seen and what can happen here in our immediate neighborhood in the hands of a mentally unstable person. The illegal weapon must be removed from our society, I call on the competent institutions to strengthen media visibility and all possible campaigns, we welcome and implement so far. I call, of course, on such actions to separate even bigger financial resources if human life has no price. Similarly, the Homeland Movement advocates a stronger control of persons who legally possess weapons, for more frequent, stricter and more detailed medical examinations and constant supervision of the storage and storage of firearms and devices intended for any purpose. When we talk about explosive substances, we know that they are used in many segments and economies, from mining, construction industry, road construction, these amendments and additions of laws, their production, availability and control systems, procurement and storage of such substances are further ensured. As for weapons, we advocate the extremely strict control of the market for explosive substances, the supervision of the legal and the fight against illegal, because, unfortunately, newspaper articles on the planting of explosive devices under cars or in bars and houses with the right to alarm the Croatian public and create feelings of discomfort and uncertainty, which is the goal of any act we can freely call terrorist. I have to admit, I come from a region where a Cuban shot is part of a tradition. Croatian Zagorje boasts of the old... I must admit that I often see my Zagoreca full of cubes, take home powder in plastic bags, and I believe that they too will begin to exercise their beautiful Croatian traditional customs more responsibly and reasonably. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I have to get a little serious for a moment as a party recently called by the prime minister's state by a party that radicalises the state of society and encourages people to act as terrorists, and its representatives and deputies to radicals, almost to terrorists who need to be separated so-called. We cannot conclude that the state in the state has long been out of control of this coalition and that it is the state of uncertainty and the way this coalition is government, the only true and right radicalisation of Croatian citizens. No one from the Homeland Movement is, will call for violent ways to solve social problems, just the opposite, we know the horrors of the war we came out of as winners and no one and we never want it to happen again. Croatian society is crying out for radical changes, but in a reasonable democratic way, without security threats and especially without party-produced investigations of opposition MPs and the creation of imaginary sanitary cordons for which we can only assume what they mean. Here we are in the month of December before the end of the calendar year, despite the difficult economic situation and the crown crisis, the time for celebration will soon come. We remind you once again, this celebration can pass without shooting, without bursting into the air, without firecrackers. The use of pyrotechnics, primarily firecrackers, seriously endangers the health of citizens, especially those of younger age, as the esteemed secretary of state mentioned, is just a few data. During the period from 15 December 2017 to 8 January 2018, 16 people were injured, of which 5 children were under 14 years of age. Next year, 23 people, of which 16 children, and last year 13 people, of which 5 children under 14 years of age. The most common is the injuries to the hands, toes, and the organs of vision and hearing that seriously reduce the future working ability of the victims, and in front of the Homeland Movement, I advocate an even stricter ban and market control, both legal and black. Of course, it is worth mentioning our pets who are part of our lives and part of our families. And I own a dog that in these days, when the shootings start, I'm going to have to say that, using tranquilizers because there's a poor dog on the verge of a heart attack. But, of course, we'll put people's lives first. The Homeland Movement will support these amendments and additions to the law. We have 2 amendments that will require that the time limit be reduced for the sale of authorised pyrotechnic means, primarily category F2 and F3 to citizens over the age of 18, as well as the days of authorised use of pyrotechnic means, and on 31 December and 1 January, although we consider the only real solution to be a complete ban, sale and use of firecrackers, and leave it to the pyrotechnics who have registered companies in Croatia. Although they may be part of Croatian tradition, shooting and explosions are not fun. Permanent disability is a terrible consequence. Let this Christmas, this New Year's Eve, in Croatian streets and squares, rule peace, which your heart desires the Homeland Movement, and these amendments and additions of the law will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26412	The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26413	... HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Not entering completely unnecessary political assessments in the ruling coalition that was recently called for the radicalisation of society, I will return to the subject of this debate aimed at making our society safer, and our citizens more secure and peaceful in a society that is both without weapons and without pyrotechnics of many challenges and dangers. As in the first reading, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this law that is before us today in its final form, we believe that it is one of those laws that deserves broad support for MPs independently of party membership for several reasons. Not only is the deadline for the obligation of legal persons and crafts to report to the Ministry of the Interior on any suspicious sale or transaction of ammunition and weapons, as well as for the inclusion of corrections regarding the earlier specifications of the area of temporary civilian shooting sites as well as further explanations of articles related to the distinction of the submission of criminal and criminal charges, this law certainly, with the proposed amendments which the applicant also explained in a more high-quality manner, regulates the area of production, transport, storage and use of explosive substances, as well as issues related to the production, transport, marking and marking of weapons, and in one part and the retailing of pyrotechics and weapons. The HDZ Club considers that the law quality regulations the rights and obligations of legal persons, craftsmen and associations whose activity is related to the possession and use of weapons, with a view to preventing arms from coming into the black market and preventing the possession of illegal weapons, ammunition and explosive substances. In the debates so far, MPs have mostly supported and supported these solutions, including those relating to the restriction of the quantity of pyrotechnics in the possession of citizens, the resources of category F1 in consumer goods stores, and the supervision of health and professional competence of persons handling explosive substances. We did this because we aim to protect the lives and health of people with special emphasis on child protection and to ensure the necessary level of safety. On the other hand, the provisions which enable the right persons, crafts and associations, and in the case of associations, these are both speleologists and HGSS, allow the F2 and F3 funds to continue to be used to carry out their activities, show in which direction the applicant wanted to go in the direction of justification and usefulness of their use, and restrictions where this is not justified are neither useful nor meaningful. When it comes to limiting the use of certain categories of pyrotechnic means, we discussed the issue as well as the question of the danger of the growth of the black market as a consequence of these restrictions in detail at first reading. In addition to a clear argument that the control of the transfer across the state border so far has almost completely eliminated this danger, which is why actors on this market agree and the argument that the use of which the detonations are created cannot be covered up and that the obstacles themselves act strongly for possible offenders. The HDZ Representatives Club also welcomes this proposal that the provisions relating to the ban on firecrackers and directors of category F2 apply only from 2 January taking into account entrepreneurs who have already ordered and paid those funds and that, after the expiry of that deadline, they are no longer to be used under the applicable provisions of the law, with it also explained that it is also possible to export such funds to countries which do not have such restrictions, so that it has an expedient effect on entrepreneurs engaged in this activity. The HDZ Representatives Club also sees no obstacles to professional training for the operation of explosive substances in addition to the institution being carried out and legal persons having the approval of the MUP for such a type of activity and for which the ministry has established that they fully meet the conditions for the implementation of such training. We also support the provisions on the disenfranchisement of firearms, noting that this law prescribes the disenfranchisement of firearms owned by legal persons, craftsmen and associations, and that only legal weapons are allowed to be disabled while illegal weapons are to be transferred to the disposal of the MUP. Since firearms incapacitation operations are carried out by legal persons and craftsmen to whom the Ministry has granted the necessary authorisation to carry out the activities of disarmament of weapons, the cost of disenfranchisement shall be paid to the legal person and craftsman who has carried out the disenfranchisement of such weapons, while the MUP shall verify that the disabled firearms have become irrevocably unusable, and noting that the ministry does not charge for the verification or verification of the incapacitated weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Representatives' Club for all these reasons will support the adoption of this law, we believe that it meets all the criteria that in the vote, just as yesterday was the case with four draft laws at yesterday's session, we support it with a unanimous decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26414	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26415	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. Therefore, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosive Substances and the Production and Transport of Weapons in its second reading harmonising legislation in principle with EU legislation in order to take over the legal order of the Republic of Croatia of the two implementing directives. Commission Implementing Directive 2019/68 of 16 January 2019 laying down technical specifications for the designation of firearms and its essential parts in accordance with Council Directive 91/477 on the control, supply and possession of weapons. Second, Commission Implementing Directive 2019/69 of 16 January 2019 laying down technical specifications for the alert and signalling in accordance with Council Directive 91/447 EC on the control of the supply and possession of weapons. What is also more important to citizens than this part of the SDP Club welcomes the proposed amendments and complements the provisions of Article. 62. the applicable law which will correct the current deficiencies and, in principle, half the problem of using firecrackers and F-2 and F-3 monks, given that according to MIP data, children or persons under 18 years of age are the most frequently injured, so minors and all injuries are caused by the use of firecrackers and monks in those categories. My colleagues have already talked about this before me, but we need to mention once again that the data from the MUP states that 16 people were injured from the use of firecrackers from 15 December 2017 to 8 January 2018, of which 5 children were younger than 14. From 15 December 2018 to 8 January 2019, 23 of whom 16 children were injured and 13 of whom were under 14 years of age from 15 December 2019 to 8 January 2020. So, with the noise of an impatience that practically firecrackers and other things explosively work in relation to pets, and ultimately to people who want peace during the holidays, at least most people, this is also one warning information and perhaps the most important information. And that is the biggest reason the SDP Club will support these changes, but I'm not saying there are no other reasons. In accordance with the last mentioned Directive, therefore, since 2019/69, the law will ensure that devices or objects designed to alert, signal or save lives are subject to verifications in order to establish their compliance with the technical specifications set out in the Annex to the implementation of the Directive, and the MUP will be designated as the competent authority for the verification of the conformity of devices and as a national contact point for the cooperation and exchange of the results of the verification of devices with other EU Member States. In addition to the sales ban so far, purchases and use by citizens of firecrackers and directors of category F-3 of the proposed additions are prohibited from selling, purchasing, possession and use of firecrackers and category F-2 monks for personal use, and a ban on the possession of firecrackers and directors of category F-3 is also added. As I was saying, by doing so, the Proposer corrects the lack of provisions. 62. the applicable law, which did not prohibit the possession of pyrotechnic assets of category F-3, was neither practical nor legal basis for the withdrawal of firecrackers and category F-3 monks found in breach of public order and peace at certain events. We believe that this proposed solution will reduce both the number of victims and ultimately the fatal and injured animals, often reported by associations and numerous citizens during the change of the applicable law and during the application. These changes will join many EU countries where firecrackers are banned, Austria, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland. Furthermore, the legislative proposal also went into addition to the provisions of the Article. 31st and 32nd applicable law aimed at better quality control and sale of ammunition or components of ammunition, as well as weapons, as well as attempted ammunition and components of ammunition, as well as weapons that are justifiably suspicious, by introducing their obligation to report to the MUP within 24 hours, which is welcomed by the SDP Club. I would like to conclude that the SDP Club supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Explosive Substances Act, as well as the production and transport of weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26416	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the distinguished representative Željko Sačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26417	... Croatian representatives and MPs, Croatian public. [[Speaker not enabled]] We certainly welcomed this proposal because we are in contact with many civil society associations, defenders' associations, victims of the Homeland War and with, in contact with ordinary people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who are very fresh memories of the Homeland War, of all the horrors of the Homeland War that we have suffered as a people and any fact that goes towards the government limiting the use of both firearms in this case, but first of all other explosive means, and so on by those pyrotechnics for entertainment so-called. We are happy at the Club of Croatian Sovereigns. We have heard all the facts, they are elaborated, we support the directives and efforts of both the EU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which wants to remove all the conditions for the abuse of firearms, both legal and even more illegal, and because it is clear in itself that such conditions are potential causes or are suitable for the execution of the most serious forms of crime against life and the body, and in the end, we have seen that many of our weapons or these similar means have ended up somewhere in Europe or the world as, as this means of committing serious crimes and even terrorism. What we particularly want to stress is the positive intention of our promoter to make absolutely restrictive access to pyrotechnic means for the past as entertainment that many of our citizens used during some holiday period, wanting to confirm their joyous state of mind, the joy that we find completely inappropriate because it has caused, as we have seen, tremendously large physical injuries to children first of all, incredibly difficult cases of firearm abuse. We heard from colleagues who ended up in someone's head, causing death, and it's just amazing that we've tolerated such a situation for so long, and I'm glad that today we suggest that we come into a circle of highly sensitive EU states that prohibit such a way, and I would say that to an unsuitable joy that is incomparable to any holiday, especially Christmas, especially not to our traditions. The Croatians in culture were not such a joy, somewhere within the limits of certain conditions yes, but thank God that even during the Homeland Defence War, the initiative of the 1990s "Good-bye weapons" "Peace and Good", above all, "Peace and Good" and where we managed to do a tremendously large result. These experiences need learning. In a public campaign, just remember how in the 1990s, '91, '92, '93. Despite the war we were throwing firecrackers, cannon strikes, explosives at midnight, on the eve of midnight, and it's terrifying, it's inadmissible, it's primitiveism, it's a harsh abuse of the feeling of the believers. Now we've done it, it's gone, but what we're proposing don't open the ramp on 27.12 so that all of these primitives can get to the point of expression, but limit it, we'll support the amendment of our colleagues who say we limit that shooting. If someone already has a terrible desire for such expressions of primitives, then give it to 31 and somehow include it on Silvestrov over the old year and up to 1. Incarceration, the damages are enormous except for cultural devastation for the entire people, except for the medical damage of bodily injury, except for our animals, our pets, birds, so flora, fauna, I absolutely didn't make a mistake or flora, etc. how much the branches break and what the florist knows and everything else. Now, these are all reasons to end it, first of all, the Croatian people need peace at that time. If someone already had a crazy need to shoot, then we suggest that in the interest of the manufacturer of these pyrotechnic means they invested here we see here we hear 150 million kunas now have invested funds to sell, but that money would be recommended to them as the tobacco industry does, as many other industries do if they want to save that clientele some purchases, rent some quarryes and forests, I wouldn't even say, some limited funds to store the garbage or buy it, possibly some shooting sites and, with the charge of such sick minds, give them the opportunity to throw it away to cheer. This would be a proposal for us to be what industry is said to be in some way in a way that is able to get money, and on the other hand these people who have these certain disorders that in some way, in a socially acceptable way and their frustrations, is better to throw in a quarry than in front of the church or in front of mass or on the street or on the street, on the street, I mean this is our concrete contribution constructive. We support you, cut your deadlines, stop the shooting, we're out of shooting, the Croats are done shooting for a hundred lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26418	Thank you. Next is an individual debate, Honorary Representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26419	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. I have to agree with my colleague Sacic, there's been a lot of shooting, and not just for our pets, but normally for our defenders and people who have suffered from PTSD, and what they have to do anyway in this difficult 11th month, especially the 12th month and all the casualties that have passed our country. I think we can commend these changes and additions, especially now in this second reading and in the final proposal, we know what the law itself regulates. Here we were only discussing this smaller segment about pyrotechnics, not so much about weapons. We know that this law regulates the area and production and transport of transport, storage and use of all pyrotechnic means of arms, parts of weapons and ammunition itself, we know why we are bringing them, because of EU regulations. European Commission relating to technical specifications of firearms. The State Secretary himself is a reference in the introduction to dates and to the use of certain pyrotechnic means, we know that we have several categories, species and classes of pyrotechnic means, i.e. firecrackers from class F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4, down to those slightly, slightly heavier types P-1, P-2, T-1 and T-2. Normally these first ones, they produce less noise, they have one lower, lower risk. Most of these funds are also used in external use, but we should also point out that by a provision of art. In the 62nd century, citizens were also banned from obtaining and using F-3 firecrackers throughout the year, and we know that there were little problems in previous changes in 2017. small illogicalities related to owning themselves not as much use as the possession of such pyrotechnic means where here in this proposal, the final proposal is these things and these failures have been removed. As far as the injury itself is concerned, we always have to, we talk a lot about pets themselves and we've been getting a lot of mail support from the Animal Friends Association. We know how much that means to them and how many of our citizens have pets and what problems they have over the 12th month, especially about holidays. Al we also received comments from associations, but also entrepreneurs and owners of pyrotechnics and their statistics and related to only injury, but also how many people in this industry are doing, which in the season, which is constantly employed. We need to emphasize both this link and this data on how many injured people are. We have one MUP statistic here, over the last few years, that varies the number of injured by pyrotechnics between 15 and 20, and that's what's most regrettable for most children and for those children under 14 years, which normally gives another meaning to these changes and gives another confirmation why it should be adopted unbound for pyrotechnics only, there is also an important segment of what I have mentioned in the introduction and asked the secretary of state as well as for the items designed to signal, alert and save lives, there will definitely get a little greater authority over the inspection and regulations for the same technical specifications, so here we have listened to other clubs, and this individual debate I believe that we will be unanimous about accepting these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26420	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now go to the next point, that is: - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 36. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Joseph Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States is a final draft law. This Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States has regulated the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between EU Member States, and EU legislation in this area is transported to domestic law. This law regulates the forms of judicial cooperation prescribed by EU legislation, the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedure, the European Investigation Order, the guarantee of property, the recognition of the enforcement of decisions on the withdrawal of property or of the case, the recognition of enforcement of decisions on fines, the recognition of the execution of sentences imposed on prisons or measures involving the confiscation of freedom, the recognition of the execution of judgments and decisions imposed on trial measures and alternative sanctions, the recognition of enforcement of decisions on precautionary measures and the European Protection Order. With this bill, we propose the 7th amendments and additions to the law. The reason for the re-addition is to install implementing provisions in relation to Regulation (EU) 2018/1805 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018. on the recognition of freezing orders and the confiscation order applicable in the EU Member States since 19 December 2020. We also determine the authorities responsible for accepting, recognising, and issuing freezing orders and confiscation orders, and the intended bodies to be county courts in the Republic of Croatia. We also predict that those same bodies which are currently competent in relation to their behaviour are consistent with the above-mentioned framework decisions of the EU body. The procedures pending on the date of entry into force of this law will be completed in accordance with the provisions of Chapters 3 and 5 of the current Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. As for the Republic of Croatia, so after Friday's vote, this law will enter into force on 19 December 2020, we propose HS to adopt the said law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26467	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. And I'm sorry, we have one replica of Honorable Agent Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26468	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, yesterday, at the meeting of the assembly, we discussed the regulation that we will implement in our legislation regarding delegated prosecutors, i.e. related to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office itself. This new institution, as much as it will reduce the need for, for legal aid, but generally related to judicial co-operation or international assistance where de facto we will now be part of a single system, we will have persons in charge i.e. Delegated public prosecutors at the level of all Member States how much this will actually advance on judicial co-operation, but also on international assistance in Croatia in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26469	Dear Secretary of State Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26470	Thank you very much. Your Honor. This is about the procedural provisions of this law, so these are the seventh amendments and additions, and this is about legal cooperation when urgent action is needed in relation to the freezing of citizens' property for which the courts in the Republic of Croatia are responsible. So these two laws that you mention about the European prosecutor, this complements each other, so that is something that is necessary for the sake of procedural action. This will improve this process of freezing property, and the powers of the European Public Prosecutor and his office in the Republic of Croatia are not in conflict with this law, so they complement each other. It is a matter of accelerated and rapid procedural cooperation that is effective from all 25 Member States to which this law applies is effective and rapid in order to avoid any fraud when it comes to the assets of persons to whom that property must be seized or frozen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26471	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26472	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. Let me, on behalf of my colleague and colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the HDZ Club, to express my position on the Final Proposal for a Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. As mentioned above, the HDZ Club will support the proposed final law in question, as stated under the proposal in question, a debate was held in this House in the first reading, the debate held on 16 October, and there were no significant objections to the proposed text. The only amendment that has been agreed and incorporated into this new final draft law is one nomotechnical amendment in Article 8 while in the rest of the text in question the text in question remained identical. As the State Secretary of State pointed out in the field of judicial co-operation and one judicial or procedural regulation that agrees with the texts of the EU Member States and, as such, are transposed directly into domestic legislation and applied as law in criminal matters with all other Member States. It is also about the seventh amendment to that law, and the reason for proposing new additions is to install implementing rules under that directive which has so far become an integral part of our legislation. Introductoryly, let's not be too long since it is the text of the final law that I say once again that the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support this final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26473	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate, according to a respected representative, Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26474	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In short, we are already discussing the matter of the EU here for a few days, we had a regulation yesterday concerning the establishment of a public prosecutor's office, today we had a debate all day about EU funding itself, and now we have a final proposal. The second reading of the law regarding judicial cooperation is precisely in criminal matters. As far as this draft proposal is concerned, we know that this is an addition to the regulation and what the Secretary of State itself has told us about the recognition of the freezing order and the confiscation order applicable in the Member States, we know that today is also an incentive for our citizens, but also, in general, the EU model itself and related to border controls, and tomorrow we will enter the Schengen area and the Eurozone, all this makes it easier not only for our citizens but also for crime across borders. Many of our citizens are normal and live abroad and these are all one procedural norm, but also certain institutes that help to at one global level i.e. specifically here at EU level, we create a common European criminal justice area, which is extremely important and to support national law enforcement authorities with institutes such as the European Arrest Warrant, mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters. And here's what we have to definitely highlight yesterday just setting up the i.e. The European Public Prosecutor's Office has already been established, and we will now send our delegated European prosecutors through this regulation next year. We are entering this one mechanism of protection and economic interest of the EU, but also of the economic and social interest of individual members. So I also believe with this common judicial space it is important that cooperation is ongoing and normal for all new forms of crime that will be created from these new times to be adequately prevented or processed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-16-0.u26475	Thank you very much. Since we have no other debates, I am concluding a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. I would now simply announce that we will continue to work tomorrow on Thursday at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will consist of two parts of A) a consultation report on the intention of declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea and B) a proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. Have a good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 4:17 p.m.
